When Clem Jenkins walked into the bait shop with that big red cooler,
we all knew what he was up to. He was the best fisherman in the
county, and he was about to prove it to us again. "Catch anything?" one
of the customers at the minnow pool asked as Clem lugged the cooler
over to the scales. Someone snickered. "Of course he caught something,"
someone else said. "He always catches something." "Just gather round
boys," Clem said so everyone would hear, "and I'll show you what's biting
this morning."
Truth be told, a small crowd had already formed around the scales.
Clem seldom disappointed us, and today would be no exception. He
flipped open the top of the cooler, and stuck both hands inside. He
paused for a moment for dramatic effect. "Get on with it Clem," Bill said
with a touch of envy in his voice. Clem grinned at him.
"Anybody here interested in bass fishing?" he said, knowing that that
was about the only thing most of us were interested in. "Well boys, feast
your eyes on this."
Clem stood up and the room fell silent for a moment, except for Fred
who let out a long, low whistle. "Jeez, Clem, that looks big enough to
take the state record," I said. I didn't even try to hide how jealous I was.
"It looks big enough, but it ain't. State record's 15 pounds, two ounces.
This baby weighs in at 14 and a half." We all agreed that it was still a respectable
catch, and Jim went behind the counter to grab the Polaroid to
commemorate the event. Jim always posted pictures of the big catches
on the wall behind the cash register. There were a few of me up there,
but pictures of Clem and his trophy-sized fish dominated.
"Hell Clem, why don't you come back when you've caught a big one," I
teased. It was only 9:30 and there was still a good two hours of fishing
left before the water got too warm. "Nah, I decided to quit early today.
It just didn't seem right to catch all of big ones and not leave any for you
guys." The guys laughed. I did too, but I couldn't let him off that easy.
"Some of us might have a chance to catch one of those big ones if you'd
ever let on where your secret spot is."
"There is no secret spot, Charlie, the secret's in the bait." Several
people nodded in agreement.
"Clem you know that's not exactly true. We all use the same bait."
Clem was formulating his answer when we were interrupted by the bell
on the front door.
Everyone turned to look at the newcomer. He was tall and built like a
man who spent most of his time behind a desk. He was dressed like the
cover of an Eddie Bauer catalog.
"Yes sir," Jim said. "Can I help you?"
The stranger took the scene in for a moment, then said "Yeah, the lady
at the motel said I could hire a guide here to do some fishing."
"Well, she told you the truth. What kind of fishing are you looking to
do?" I could see the question confused him. I could also see that he was
going to try hard not to let on.
"Uh, I read that the Bass fishing up here is really good."
"It sure is," Jim said. "You after small mouth, or large mouth?"
Some of the guys had to suppress a grin. The newcomer was what we
called a weekender, a tourist who liked to swing down from the city and
spend some time away from it all. For the most part we didn't really
mind the weekenders. We needed their money. The only problem was,
some of them knew it.
"Which one is biggest?" the weekender continued.
"Large mouth," Jim said. "Clem here just caught one that weighed
over 14 pounds."
By now, Clem had put his fish back in the cooler, and was busy gathering
his things to leave. The weekender looked over to Clem. "Well,
how about it?" he asked.
"How about what?" Clem answered and bent over to pick up his
cooler.
"Are you a fishing guide?"
Clem was a licensed guide, and a good one, too. But he didn't like
working for weekenders. Clem stood up. "Yeah, I'm a guide, but my
schedule's full right now."
The weekender looked a little surprised. He seemed like a guy who
was used to having things his way.
"Well, I'd be willing to pay you something extra to find some time in
your schedule." Clem looked uninterested.
The weekender checked his watch. It was a Rolex. "Look, I've got
some things to do today. Why don't you just take a deposit, and I'll meet
you back here at 3 to work out the details." Clem started to say
something when the weekender pulled out two crisp hundred dollar
bills. He folded them in half, reached out, and stuffed them in Clem's
shirt pocket. "See you at three," he said, and walked out the door.
After he left, Jim spoke up. "Can you believe the nerve of that guy?
Driving up here in his Mercedes and acting like he owns all of us." Bill
wasn't too pleased either. "Screw him, Clem. You don't need any money
from guys like that."
It was strange, but Clem was the calmest of all of us. "It isn't anything
to get worked up about fellows," Clem said. "The guy wants me to take
him fishing, so I'll take him fishing."
Clem and I spent the rest of the morning getting things ready for the
trip. Clem had his own boat, of course, but mine was in better shape and
had those nice padded seats that Clem liked so much. We had lunch together
at the diner, and made it back to the bait shop in time to load up
the boat with supplies. Jim always stocked plenty of beer and sandwich
fixings at the bait shop. Plus, Clem and I both qualified for the 10% fishing
guide discount.
We were outside making the final preparations when the weekender
pulled up. He drove a Mercedes alright, but it was the sport utility model.
It looked out of place next to my rusty Ford pickup. The weekender
got out and walked up to Clem.
"Glad to see you've found some time," he said. "What do I need to
take with me?"
Clem said he'd need a license, and might want to buy some bug spray
and sunscreen. "You can buy everything inside," Clem added.
"Fine. How much are we talking about for this trip?"
I smiled. It was always the guys who threw money around who were
the most concerned about the price of the trip.
"Trip costs $300. That includes all your gear, plus dinner. I'll also
clean and filet any fish you catch, and pack them so you can take them
back with you."
The weekender made a face. "No thanks," he said. "I hate fish. If it's
big enough, I'll have it mounted. Otherwise you can just throw them
back." Clem didn't look surprised.
"OK then, let's get you a license," Clem said, and walked into the bait
shop.
Inside, Jim already had everything laid out. The weekender filled out
the license application and paid the fee. I walked back to the storage
room and came back with the blue cooler.
"What's in there?" the weekender asked as I struggled through the
door. "Bait," I replied. "Everyone around here knows the secret's in the
bait." The answer seemed to satisfy him.
Everything was all loaded up, and I was sitting in the truck by the
time Clem and the weekender came out of the bait shop. They climbed
into the front seat. Clem had to sit in the middle, but it didn't matter because
we weren't going too far. I tried to start a conversation, but was
interrupted by the weekender's cell phone.
"Yeah...speak up...I'm on vacation...fishing...no...Monday or Tuesday..."
It went on in that vein for the rest of the drive to the lake.
The boat lauch went smoothly and we were all on the lake by five. I
drove the boat, and Clem baited the hooks. The first place we tried was
a bust. Clem got a few nibbles, but the weekender and I didn't even get
that. We moved on to a second spot. The sun was getting low in the
sky. "That's good for us," Clem said. "The fish start to feed again in the
evening."
We settled in, and in just a few minutes, Clem got a solid strike. He
was paying attention to the weekender, though, and didn't set the hook
in time. "Damn," Clem muttered, "got my bait." The weekender was
starting to get antsy.
"At least you got a bite," he complained. "I've been out here with you
for two hours, and haven't even gotten that." He stopped short of asking
for his money back, but Clem and I both knew that he was about to.
"Let's try one more place," Clem suggested. We reeled in our lines and
headed out across the lake. It was almost dark, and I had to navigate by
the lights of the town on the far shore.
"This is good here," Clem shouted over the buzz of the motor. I
reached out and cut it off. The lake was beautifully calm, and Clem
made his way to the front of the boat. He pulled out a flashlight and
shined it onto his rod and reel. The weekender picked up his rod also.
"I'm out of bait," he said.
Clem tossed him the flashlight. "Here you go. Bait's in the blue
cooler."
The weekender leaned over and popped the lid of the cooler. I
watched his face as the light from the flashlight shined inside. I could
see his wide eyes, and I hit him hard with the oar before he had a chance
to scream. Clem looked at him for a second, then rolled him out of the
boat and held him under water for a few minutes just to be sure.
It was pretty late by the time we made it back to the bait shop. Jim
and a few of the guys were waiting for us. "Catch anything?" Jim asked.
Clem smiled.
"Biggest one yet." Several heads nodded. Clem paused for effect, then
added "The secret's in the bait, you know."
If you enjoyed this story and would like to be told when a new one is
available, just send an e-mail to bleestories at gmail.com with Feedbooks
in the subject line. No spam and no sales pitch, just a personal note from
me to you.

