Sunlight dapples my eyelids. My eyes ache more than ever now,
and with each new dawn I wake with dread. It is cold too, this morning.
A thin layer of frost glues the edge of my coat to the pavement, spikes
my hair into messy peaks. I run a hand though it, and hear, in the dead
quiet of morning, soft crackles as the spikes dissolve. My nose is icy; my
cheeks feel red and chapped. I sit up slowly, aware of pains that are too
numerous to single out.
The cold smoothness of the glass behind me is running with rivulets of
freezing condensation, but it prevents me from falling. As I stretch my
legs out, hearing the pops and cracks of my stiff joints, I see that the
gloves I am wearing are tattered, both thumbs poking rudely through. I
smell terrible, I am sure, but I have long since lost the ability to judge my
own odour.
I draw up my legs and hug them close to me. The city is still asleep at
this hour, and I revel in the quiet. The sun begins to rise, and I imagine
that it rises just for me. It is beautiful. I can never forget the desperation
of my situation, but I have learned to push it away, hide it in some
cloistered corner of my brain, where I daren’t yet mine.
My thoughts turn slowly, inevitably, to breakfast. I smile. I have a
nice smile, and I am lucky that I still have all my teeth, my skin is clear
and smooth, and that my hair is not too unkempt. I am lucky that
people still find in them some measure of pity, and I need that. I don’t
eat all that often. You have to learn to live on very little, sometimes
nothing. I read of a man who survived for over four months on water
alone. I try not to better that.
I stand and stretch. The sun this morning is truly wonderful. There
are long, grey morning shadows, and where they land, small patches of
glistening white frost. Everywhere else, it melts quickly. The street
lamps flickered out two hours ago, and such is the time of year that they
will be flickering back to life in eight or nine hours. My feet are still cold,
and I shift them into the sun, stamping lightly.
I am not happy, and yet something keeps waking me in the mornings,
keeps me going through the motions of day after day. The same thing
that has kept me going for nearly thirteen years. I’m not sure what that
something is, but I am sure I will know it when I see it. It is waiting for
me.
I am standing on a pavement running the length of a quiet city street.
My hair is long, my beard thick but relatively un-matted, for I comb it
and my hair regularly. I am wearing tatty shoes that have lasted me for
ten years or more, and here and there they are held together with strips
of plastic bag and parcel tape. Of my three pairs of trousers, I am wearing
my worst. The other two are folded into the bag I use as a pillow.
Also in the bag are several tee shirts. Over all this I am wearing a dark
green ex-army jacket that I found in a skip. It is lined with fake fur, although
I am sure that was never army issue. Most of it is hanging torn
and shredded like giant cobwebs.
I look up and down the street. There are few awake, one or two early
rising shopkeepers. I see one now, scurrying like an oversized ant to and
from his shop, arms laden with fruit boxes. My mouth begins to salivate.
I walk towards the shopkeeper, and as they almost all do, he keeps
his head down, content to know of my existence but ignore it. I kick a
soft drink can down the road in front of me, and it isn’t until I hear the
muted rattle of its passage, that I fully realise the depth of the silence.
My breath makes soft white plumes in the air, and I walk through
them. The open shop is very close now. The shopkeeper looks up and
sees me coming, then looks quickly away. I think that it is possibly because
my eyes resemble those of a wild animal, a wolf perhaps. I stuff
my hands deep into the pockets of my jacket. The shopkeeper mumbles
something incoherent, and I try to be friendly. I nod my head and
mumble back. No words, just cautious sounds.
I see his arm move suddenly, in a blur, and realise he has thrown
something at me. Or rather, to me. My hand snatches the projectile from
the air with scarcely a thought, and I break into a wide toothy grin as I
feel the cold crisp hardness of an apple in my palm. It is as big as a baseball,
red and shiny as fresh blood. I thank him with real words this time
and laugh.
I bite into the apple, and it is lush and sweet. The juice runs into my
beard, but I ignore the stickiness for now. For a moment I can forget
where and who I am and enjoy my breakfast. It is over too soon and I
throw the core and pips into a dustbin. My hands thread their way back
into my jacket pockets, for although it is slightly warmer in the sun, there
is still a bitter wind curling its fingers around me.
There is a bit more life to the city now. My watch has been broken for
four years, but I can guess the time pretty accurately. It is around seventhirty.
I see my first car of the morning. Its exhaust belches oily blue
smoke, and I watch the plumes twist and cavort in the cold air, thin
tendrils reaching after the car like dead hands. I cough deeply, not liking
the deep rattle that follows each hacking cough, or the moisture welling
in my eyes.. The apple has left tiny slivers of skin between my teeth and
I find a park bench and spend a few happy moments picking them out.
The street meets with the main road here, and at all four corners of the
junction, I can see the city open herself up to me. It spreads as far as I
can see. I stretch my legs and drop one on top of the other. For a while, I
am content. The sun warms my face and I turn to it, closing my eyes.
The city is truly a magnificent place, and here is its true beauty. Here at
its heart. Cars appear from nowhere, roaring past, their numbers increasing
into a flowing metal stream, the faces of the drivers merging,
becoming one face, parts of it content, parts irate, parts distant, as if the
people have far more worry on their minds than they outwardly show. I
watch them pass.
The last piece of apple comes loose and I grind it between my teeth
with childish satisfaction. I have been here long enough to nod off, I
think. It is perhaps nine o’clock, probably a little before. The air is humming
with life. People travelling to work, to shop. Ah, for those luxuries.
I used to work; only now I can’t remember where. A woman sits
down next to me. At least, she is on the same bench as me, but is sitting
as far away as she can manage, stuffing herself into the corner and
studying her fingernails as though they were priceless jewels. I turn to
look at her and my heart stutters. I know this woman! I can’t place her
name, but I know I was married once. Jean, or Jane. Is this her? I look
again and she looks back. I see her face full on. It is not my wife. My
heart is beating fast and I grin stupidly. I am sure I appear a madman to
her, grinning through a thick swatch of dirty beard. She moves hastily
on, as the world does. Her perfume does not share her haste, and hangs
lazily in the air. It tickles my nostrils and I fight with a sneeze. It wins.
I stand and turn to meet the nestling of shops before me. Which way?
I choose straight on because it seems less effort that way. As I walk, I
find I am thinking of the woman. Who is she? I ask myself out loud. A
couple shoot quizzical looks my way but I ignore them. I must seem no
different to the hundreds of babbling tramps that wander this city.
My eyes are open but shock flares them wider. My heart races. I think
I am wetting myself. A noise, blaring louder and louder until it
threatens to split my ear drums, is drilling its way into my head. I can’t
place the noise, but suddenly something snaps and it is clear to me. A
car horn. I turn to my right and see the car, its grille, like bared teeth,
inches from my leg. In the air is the bitter sting of burning rubber. The
angry driver is yelling, but the volume of the horn has temporarily
deafened me, and I can’t make out the words.
I have walked blindly out into the road. Before waiting for me to
move, the driver wrenches his car around me, an angry squeal of tyres. I
trot quickly to the other side of the road, and rest my weight on a lamppost,
breathing heavily. My heart bumps and jitters under my ribs and
my legs quiver as if they are about to drop me to the floor. I feel coldness
as the air hits the wet patch at my crotch. As I calm, the reality of
what happens hits me suddenly. Was I really that close to death? I begin
to cry as the relief washes over me. On the tails of relief follow shame
and desperation. Would anyone care if I had died? I mean, really care?
Still hitching breath, I manage to hobble away past shops and shops and
shops.
As I walk, a thought hits me so violently that I stagger in the street.
What if I had been killed back there? What if the driver hadn’t seen
me, hadn’t stopped? Would it be better if I were dead? I list everything I
would miss, but the truth of it is I would miss very little. I force the
thought away.
My knees have stopped their ragged shaking, my heart beats normally.
My chest feels abused, raw, but I manage to draw breath.
Sleep comes easily when you are homeless, and comes easiest of all
when your belly is empty and your body is drained of nutrients and
vigour. I find a large tree, this one still frosted from the cold and I
wrestle myself into the confines of its buttresses. My bag serves me
again as a pillow and I wrap the tattered remains of my coat around my
legs, which I have curled under me.
My dreams are as ever horrid scaly things invading and tormenting
me. I am dreaming of cars, of great shining grilles with teeth that
threaten to unravel me. I dream of death and I dream of a man. He has
become a friend to me, in past months, and yet I never see his face. I
know I twist and contort myself in sleep, but no one cares.
I am left to my nightmare.
…i am standing in sand up to my ankles…it is cold and bites into me as if
every grain was gifted with bristling needle teeth…wind whips around me but i
have no coat…nothing to warm my freezing skin…as i look down at myself i see
i am completely naked…my skin is peaked infinitely with goose-bumps… blue
with the cold…
there is nothing to see…the dreamscape is as desolate as i always feared it
would be…dunes upon dunes of billowing sand white as if sun bleached…but
there is no sun…the wind drops but the cold remains as if it is within me…i
start to walk forward i think but…there is no front or back here…
…north is as south is as east is as west…
…up is as down…
…i appear as white as the biting sand…motionless…emotionless…
…a man is walking towards me now out of the distance…he has always been
there…waiting…
…my dream-self…
…it is the friend i have had in every dream i can remember…i am jealous of
his robes that drape across his wide shoulders…of the cowl that protects his face
from the sand…the sand…always the biting sand…
…i know that if i were to remove that cowl he would appear as i do…my
twin…i laugh…he echoes the sound…his laugh is dead…flat…cold…coming
across the wastes of sand…i raise my hands and he copies…i am drugged…my
limbs heavy…i fight it… and it is winning…
…the man beckons and i walk towards him…passing oceans of bleached
sand…still the man remains distant…always the same number of footfalls away
from me…he is walking away as i walk towards…and yet we are facing each
other…
…he stops…tilts his head…i tilt mine and i wonder who is leading who…am
i him?…is he me?…
…my nakedness is covered now by a robe like his and we could be as one… i
draw back the hood of the robe hoping he will do the same…
…as i watch the man finally draws the cowl from his own head and i recoil…
unable to stop myself…it is plainly me i am looking at…the same awkward
tilt to my mouth…the same deep set eyes…the same wide cheekbones and
high forehead…and where my own face is bristling with beard…his is clean…no
hair on it whatsoever…i see the reason suddenly…he is burned…this version of
me…horribly burned so that his face appears nothing more than a pasty mass of
scar tissue…i could be looking at death itself…and then it smiles at me…the
scars bunching and stretching horribly around the mouth and eyes…i scream…
…my own face wrinkles in sympathy and i feel i could reach right to him and
pull the mask off…if i were to do so…i would see myself underneath…
…i reach towards this hideous parody…expecting it to retreat but it
doesn’t…expecting myself to finally wake but I don’t…
…suddenly I am next to it…a reverse mirror image of it…of me…breathing
the reek from it…from the glistening maw that is its face…its eyes have
gone…it no longer looks human…like me…its arms are wizened claws…and
they clutch at me so violently I am thrown off my feet…my lungs seize and
breath is expelled in one long desperate gasp…
…it reaches again for me…its wizened arms reaching higher and higher until
it grasps my throat tightly…I gasp as it pushes my head down…I present the
crown of my head to it…wait for the killing stroke…it doesn’t come…
… it takes my skull… strangely soft… into its putrid maw… it melds to the
contours of the thing’s palate… my chin is resting on its tongue and i can hear
the boiling acid in its stomach… i vomit at the stench of it… i can see down the
throat… down the oesophagus that is a wasted tube of dead flesh…
… the pressure from its grasping hands relaxes considerably but i do not try
to pull my head from its jaws… i feel a profound loss every time i move so i remain
still… push my head further in… blind now to the sights and smells of
it… and it begins to feel warm and soft… sensual almost… i am an infant
now… the baby is crying and i know that it is crying not through fear or hunger
but rather because everything it has ever known… the womb… the warmth…
has been wrenched from it cruelly… because it knows that all it will experience
now is pain… dirt… excretion… hurt…
… i hear a deep laugh beginning in the creature’s gut… my laugh of course…
as i realise who it is… who i am…
… death…
… and now this feeling i have as i kiss the insides of the creature’s mouth…
rub my face into the soft tongue… caress the fleshy softness… i recognise it as
the feeling of being born back to the womb… back to the sensual protective darkness
that begins life and inevitably… must end it…
… i reach my hands up and the jaws open wider to accommodate me… i start
to clamber frantically inside… using my legs to push deeper… it seems impossibly
big as i begin to disappear into the putrid blackness… suddenly the
mouth shuts behind me and i am left in pitch blackness… i yell… hawking great
lungfuls of stinking air to fuel my cries…
… as a great snaking umbilical cord wraps itself around me and i writhe
against its greasy pulsing length… suddenly it grows tight and pulls me in…
the mouth starts to tip me forwards… i know it means to swallow me and i feel
tingling anticipation… it means to end my life… or begin my death… it is the
same…
… i reach into the throat meaning to pull myself further in… i encounter
rows of viciously serrated teeth… i pull my hands away from the pain and find
them hopelessly ruined and torn… a violent tipping of the tongue and i am
gone… deep… deep into the cave of its throat… deep into myself… for we are
one and the same… the teeth rake at me… i am a foetus… curled and defenceless…
i smell the pit of its stomach… feel splashes of the acid on my face and
arms… before i die i hear the laughter again… then… nothing…
Then I am awake and it is afternoon. The sun is sinking already so I
know it must be at least four thirty. I stink of piss and I must have
vomited in my sleep. I see there is blood in the mess beside me.
I feel strange. Never in my thirteen years as this vagabond have I felt
such peace. I feel terribly warm, and yet I can see from the hats and
scarves, and from the frosty plumes of breath around me, that it is cold.
As I stand and stretch, I realise suddenly what it is I have been searching
for these years. It pops into my head as sharply and audibly as a snapping
twig.
I am looking for Death.
Quite simply. I have lived this life of misery for too long and I am sick
of it. Sick of the hunger, the cold, the thirst. Sick of the danger, the withering
stares and the illness that are constant bed fellows. I am lonely and
desolate, all I have or once had is gone, extinguished like a fragile flame.
I have the answer now. Death awaits me, reaching to me with arms that
promise peace and calm and happiness.
It is so simple. I shrug off my coat and stand in the chill of the winter
evening. I feel no cold. I laugh and laugh. As I walk from my bed, I slip
my arms into my jacket, preferring the ease of wearing it to the clumsiness
of carrying it. The air has become cold, and I can almost taste the
thinness of it.
The idea of dying does not fill me with the cold dread it once did. Instead,
I feel a longing for the peace that has evaded me for as long as I
can remember. The grass crunches under my feet. The frost has returned,
and I prepare for a cold night. I begin to think of food; begin to
return to the routine of finding food, eating food and finding shelter.
I then realise that I have other plans ahead, and that finding food and
shelter need not figure in them. The man in my dreams surfaces in my
mind again, shrouded and darkened behind his cowl. I long for his final
touch. I find another tree and lie beneath it.
I have vague memories of trying to kill myself once. Seven years ago.
Perhaps I knew then what I know now? What I desire now? Perhaps
not. Stolen headache tablets, spread in a pile like a tiny snow-capped
mountain. I remember the sound they made as they tumbled and
clattered against one another. Swallowed slowly, one by one, washed
down with a half bottle of vodka. My hands were steady, and my heart
a peaceful rhythm. It comforted me as I prepared for my death. How
many heartbeats left? Three hundred? A thousand? Ten? Nothing
seemed to happen for a long time. I dozed and woke with metronomic
regularity, and then…
There was light suddenly all around me, and pain stabbed my gut like
a knife. My face contorted with agony, eyes flared and mouth frothed
like a horse in the throes of madness. The brightness changed.
Occasional flashes of colour, too bright for me to register. My head
seemed to lift from my shoulders and there was a roiling in my gut.
Vomit spewed across my legs. Black in the moonlight, presumably with
blood. Still my head rose and I felt I could turn to look down at my
thrashing, spasming body below me. My stomach rose and fell rapidly,
and with each new contortion, a fresh gobbet of vomit spattered me. My
head sank suddenly without warning and by degrees the contortions
slowed and stopped. Sudden blackness. I fell to my jacket and let death
take me.
And yet I woke and lived. And lived.
The memory is now too much for my fragile mind. I am sick, violently,
fall into blackness again.
I become aware of the warmth of the sun on my face as I wake. I realise
with some dismay that I am still alive. I’m hollowed out, like a shell,
my innards wrenched from their moorings like so much crab meat. I
stare at the splatter of vomit across my legs and see undigested apple littering
the dark redness like stars in a dusky sky. Tears wet my cheeks as
I try to stand and fall back, weakened.
Death won’t come for me. I know that now. I will have to find Death.
Urgency lifts me. I must do this. I realise I am chanting this mantra.
I must do this.
The city is alien, death everywhere suddenly. I feel like a tourist,
death’s tourist, among the throng. All seems strange to me, as if I hadn’t
looked it every day of my life for thirteen years or more. My head feels
crushed and my neck and stomach muscles feel stretched, violated. I feel
cold without my coat. I stagger across ever busying streets, mindless to
the traffic, the screeching tyres, wailing horns. I walk through crowds of
people that aren’t there. Dark roads lead off the main street and the perspective
of the houses that line them draws me into their darkness, like a
wooded path in a fairy tale. I take the furthest one from the bustle of the
city. Front yards and pavements are littered with the corpses of deceased
bicycles, shopping carts and old shoes. Windows in the houses
nearest the entrance to the road are clean and sparkle in the sun. Further
in they are either smashed or boarded over like wounds. I encounter
few people. Those that I do see avert their eyes. Soon enough I stop
looking at them and walk. Hunger gnaws at me pointlessly.
At the last house on the road, facing me before a broken fence and
miles of increasing dark, the door hangs limply open. A mattress juts
like a tongue, and the windows are half lidded with yellowing net
curtains. As if I have been led here, my heart quickens as I walk up the
path and enter the house, the first I have been in since leaving my own
The stench of the place hits me like a slap, and I reel, noticing as I do
the discarded needles like a glassy snow drift in one corner. I walk in a
fugue through to what I presume is a sitting room and pain flares suddenly,
violently in my head, ringing at my temple. My legs collapse and
I am dead weight on the carpet.
A man is standing over me, a torrent of words escaping him, or so I
imagine. I seem to have gone deaf and the blow blurs my senses. The
pain fades as the man hits me again. I have time to study his face,
pocked and drawn, a cheese-white blot with hollow eyes like burns. I
see a flash of metal. The man berates me further, although I am still deaf
to his ranting. I try to tell him I have no need for his drugs but he hits
me again, and follows that with a flurry of kicks, surprisingly solid despite
his apparent frailty. The metal flashes again and I have time to register
a blade.
Just.
Heat blooms in my chest and I see I am skewered. Blood oozes slowly
around the handle and coats the blade. I laugh. The man withdraws the
knife, and I recognise and appreciate the look of horror on his face. Can
I thank him? If only he knew. I try, between giggles. Everything blurs
again and the pain seems unable to creep through the fug. My laughter
further enrages him and he stabs me again. Pain now as the blade slips
delicately between ribs into my heart. A sickening release and blood
courses from the wound. Greyness edges across my vision, and my last
true sight is of the man turning, dropping the knife. I watch the blood
slip from its gleam as it lets go its hold on my fluids. Blackness. There is
the sound of my heart beating its last and then there is nothing. No
sound, no sight, no feeling. It is as if I have ceased to exist, except that I
am somehow aware of this fact. I suffer a moment or two of this nothingness
and then I feel cold biting wind and hear the rustle that I know is
the sound of grains of sand knocking and jostling over one another.
…i am standing in sand up to my ankles…it bites i as if every grain was gifted
with bristling needle teeth… in front of me is… my twin… its jaws drop
wide and i begin my climb into the maw once again… the smells and sounds of
death affront me… and to accent them is the throb where the drug addict’s knife
ended me…
… i lay my head on the glossy tongue… stroke my arms wide across it… it
becomes as a second coupling with a new lover… no less exciting… anticipative…
but less anxious and fearful… familiar… i rub my face and torso into the
floor of this cavern… i curl like the foetus i am becoming and begin sucking on
my thumb…
… i almost cry out as i feel the greasy umbilical cord join me to the twin who
swallows me…
… a pulsating movement underneath and the floor of the cave softens further…
blackness begins to drop from the fleshy walls as the mouth decays
around me… i sink a way into the tongue as it rots… it starts to tip me down
the throat and the teeth begin their work anew… tearing me and pulling me
in…
… i cry out and attempt to withdraw… my arms are caught and are shredding…
pain washes like fire and i scream… i manage to release myself somehow…
i am free for seconds until my legs are snagged on the grasping teeth that
seem to have life… my legs are stripped of skin and then of flesh as they are
pulled further in… i scream again and beg for it to stop… but of course it
doesn’t… not when my chest is punctured… not when the teeth reach my neck
and tear at the skin there… it doesn’t stop when the umbilical tears loose…
sending viscera spilling hotly down the rotting tube of its throat…
… and when the pain seems to have reached its peak… it doubles and triples
and magnifies by multiples of thousands as my skull is crushed by the peristalsis
within the rotting tube of its throat… my brain presses against the bone briefly
before being forced out through nose and mouth and ears… i moan… no longer
able to scream… how am i still aware… i beg again for it to stop… and still it
doesn’t…
… and it swallows… finally… i boil in its acids… a fleshy pulp and still unmercifully
aware to the end of my pain and plight… i have no form… only feeling…
and so am forced to experience my own dissolution… digestion… excretion…
this last fills me with such anguish that i scream… and scream… and
scream…
… silently…
… once out of the creature my soul turns and watches as the creature slinks
away… no longer pretending human form… i can make no sense of it…
… i hang in the air over a pile of this creature’s shit… in the mess are clearly
definable shapes… a femur here… ribs there… caging a domed segment of my
skull… as i watch the wind picks up and the shit starts to crumble… already
drying…
… the bones crumble with it… crumble into dust… into…
… into…
… into…
… suddenly it hits me…
My death is nothing. No pleasures. No sensuality. It is not the comforting
womb that I believed it to be. It is simply a cold, biting desert.
My bones have vanished. I make the connection. I realise. If I had a
heart, and it hadn’t already been pierced, surely it would burst.
The creature has tricked me. This desert is death.
It is nothing more or less than the powdered bones of billions of
tricked souls just like me. He has shit them all out to rot and crumble
among the bone-white sand. Bone-white because it is bone. And here I
am too. I fear I will never be unaware. Mercy will not visit me. Or
rather, us.
I can hear so many others crying with me. I am no different now.
My death is a grain of sand in a desert.
My crying joins the cacophony and it is a horrible sound.

