I write this sitting at a desk, wind serene about me, clouds forming and
unravelling in beautiful shapes above me. I write this, and you are forgiven
if you don’t see the shakes in my hands, or notice the hurried
scrawl of my writing. I write fast as I have no idea when he might come
back to me. According to my watch, it has been three days and roughly
six hours since I last held him, and fourteen hours since I last saw him
and heard his voice. I’ll be back, Dad, he had said. And I believe him. So
I wait for him still.
There are noises in the far distance. Weird, animal hoots and growls,
and I am certain they are of a kind I have not heard before. The wind
smells faintly of cut grass and faintly of rot. I do not know which I
prefer, because cut grass reminds me too vividly of home, and sunny,
perfect days on the lawn with my son, throwing Frisbees and kicking
balls. I can close my eyes and imagine the silk of his translucent yellow
hair. I don’t close my eyes too often here, because when I do, the sounds
and smells become all the more real, as if I am compensating for the loss
of one sense by heightening my others. And so I make the very things I
am trying to avoid all the closer.
When I try to look for the source of the sounds, it is as if my eyes suddenly
cease to focus, and the far distance becomes blurred and pale, as if
seen through mist. Only when I return my gaze to the desk do things become
sharp again.
My son has been gone for over three days, have I said that? I heard
him speak those final words after two and a half days searching, and as I
called out to him, spinning to look in every possible direction, I was sure
I caught a glimpse of his bright red tee shirt. Then it was gone and I am
now not so sure I saw anything. I’ll be back, he said. And so I write,
waiting for some sign. Waiting for the courage to follow those sounds
into the far distance and find my boy.
He first showed me the ladder on the day after his eighth birthday.
We have a large oak tree at the bottom of our garden, standing monolithlike
on the edge of a large but unkempt lawn, all other plants and garden
ornaments placed in such a way that they seem to draw the eye to it, although
this is wholly unintended. This particular day, my son was
standing in front of the tree, looking smaller than ever, and I can still see
the way the dappled sunlight played on his face, soft ripples of light
turning his hair white and then darkening to a caramel blonde. I loved
him more than ever at that moment, I think. If only I had done things
differently. You may read that line more than once in this…
… confession? Yes, confession fits.
Around the tree was an old garden seat, its deep green paint long ago
weather-faded so that it almost seemed part of the tree. It curved around
the tree about a third of the way round, and as I watched, my son
stepped up on it, reaching to touch the ladder that folded itself around
the front of the tree, then continued a curve around its massive girth,
ever upwards. It vanished from sight into the branches around the
back.
I had never seen the ladder before.
I stared. My son turned to face me, a look of wild excitement on his
face, and even across the distance I could see the sheen in his eyes and
the wind in his hair. I think that the look he had is saved specifically for
eight year old boys, when every event becomes adventure, every darkness
becomes a monster-filled cave, and every anomalous ladder simply
another thing to climb just because it is there. The look said, Can I climb
it, Dad? Can I?
I started towards him, a look of concern obviously showing, for he
dropped his hand and stood on the seat, barely able to contain his jittering.
I approached the tree, ruffling my son’s hair as I passed and I
looked closely at the ladder. As I think back on it, it is a surprise even to
me that I felt no shock at seeing it there. It was as if I convinced myself it
had always been there and I had just never seen it.
It seemed to begin somewhere at the back of the tree, out of sight, its
rungs organic and woody, laced with delicate ivy, slick with old moss. I
stepped slowly to the side and followed it around the tree. It seemed to
curve forever upward and as I stood at the back, it yet again disappeared
out of sight, this time around the front of the tree.
And there was no sign of its beginnings. I stared.
I told myself I had just been at the front of the tree and the ladder did
not reappear there as it surely must, looking at it from this angle. I hurried
around the tree, following the ladder as I went, and I found myself
again at the front, seeing the original perspective. Then again around to
the back of the tree where it vanished into the branches. It seemed that
wherever I began following the ladder, its origins were out of sight, and
it disappeared into the branches at either side. It was the most perplexing
optical illusion, and I followed it two more times, coming up with
the same conclusion each time.
What is it, Dad? my son asked. I grinned at him (and that grin I now
feel was the start of it all, as if I had given his excitement the fuel and
permission it needed to grow. God, had I but known.), and shrugged,
feeling like an excited child myself. I had an idea, and I asked my son to
run in the house. He did, dutifully, and I spent the time he was gone
walking round and round the tree, following the ladder with my hand,
losing it as it became too high, but marking the height of its disappearance
and time after time I marvelled at the way the ladder just seemed to
begin again at that height (which was always about four feet off the
ground) without being visible on the opposite side.
My son returned. In his hand he clutched a red crayon, and I took it
from him and began to retrace my steps, this time running the crayon
along the edge of the ladder. When the ladder became too high to comfortably
reach, I marked the height by running the crayon along the
trunk itself, picking up the ladder again at the front, impossibly at the
same height as it always had been. By the time I had walked around the
trunk a further four times, there were five clear lines of red following the
ladder’s progress. I must be stooping as I reach the front, I thought as I
made a sixth journey. But, no. I wasn’t. I dropped the crayon. It hit me
that the sensation was like running my hand around the sharp edge of a
giant screw that was boring its way into the earth, so that, give or take
depending on my speed around the tree, the height of my hand on the
leading edge of ladder remained the same. But, unless I was having a
massive leap away from all my senses, the tree did not seem to be boring
its way into the earth. I was stumped.
You may think that the next logical step was to mount the thing and
follow it upwards. Of course. But we didn’t. Not then anyway. I
ushered my son away from the tree, distracting him with promises of ice
cream and movies and for a day or two, we almost forgot about the
ladder.
And then he climbed it.
He was up it and gone before I knew what was happening. He had a
glazed look on his face as if something had called him, hypnotising, and
as I ran towards the tree, calling his name so loud that my throat was still
hurting three days later, I saw him turn to look at me only once. The
look I saw there chilled me then and does still, as I relive it for this account.
He looked at once as if he knew exactly what he was doing, and
at the same time as if he was being pulled away from all he knew and
loved, and his face screamed to me to stop him. The pleading I saw in
his eyes, desperate helpless pleading as if it was a stranger on the ladder
pulling him upwards rather than the power of his own legs, forced my
own legs into a paroxysm of power and I cleared the distance to the tree
in seconds. I was too late however, for as I reached the trunk and followed
the spiral steps around it, I caught a glimpse of his shoe as it disappeared
into the leaves. And then nothing. I ran, I circled the tree
hopelessly in the vain hope that I would see him up in the branches, a
cruel trick. Of course, I saw no such thing.
The ladder wound terminally onwards, ever spiralling, each revolution
of the tree seeming to launch it into its ascent anew. Of my son,
there was no sign. It was as if he had vanished. I screamed his name up
into the branches, scanning their depths for a sign of him, but I saw nothing.
The leaves continued their soft waving, and the breeze sighed
through them and for a moment I imagined his voice calling me. I
thought my heart would break at that moment. I gathered myself for the
ascent, and had even stepped onto the bench at the tree’s base, when I
heard his soft step. I saw one foot, then the other and I stood paralysed,
waiting.
Of course, it was him. His hair looked ruffled and was flecked
through here and there with seeds and grass. There was a flush to his
cheeks, the exuberant glow of a child at energetic play. I reached up to
him, snatched him off the ladder and threw us both to the ground, sobbing
and clutching him tightly. He was silent, and he shook, I presumed
with fear, but as I separated us, and held him at arms length for the admonition
that had to come, I saw he was shaking with laughter. Indeed,
he seemed paralysed by it, tears coursing down his grubby face, his
white teeth shining through the redness of his moistened lips. His silenced
ended suddenly in a gasping inrush of air, and I heard the familiar
cackle of his laughter. Despite myself, despite my fear and coldness
that still caressed my bones, I smiled. The smile grew and I began to
laugh with him, caught up by the infection rather than for any genuine
humour. I felt his admonishment dissolving in that sound and I hugged
him close.
Finally we stood and I looked close at him, the laughter subsiding, his
eyes trained first on me, but ever glancing towards the ladder, quick and
furtive. What happened? Where did you go? I asked him, feeling foolish but
unable to rephrase the question so that it made sense to me. Dad, why
didn’t you come with me? was his reply. It was fun. Loads of fun! I must
have frowned at this, for he focused solely on me for a moment.
What happened up there? I asked again. I just played! But it was so much
fun, Dad! he replied. The chill of fear began to return, and God help me,
for an instance I looked at my son and I swear I had to stop myself looking
for the birthmark at the crown of his skull for proof that it really was
he who had returned. But you were only gone for seconds! I said feebly.
Don’t be silly, Dad. he said as he walked back to the house, absentmindedly
brushing grass seeds from his hair. It was hours. Two at least!
Why didn’t you come, we could’ve played together?!
He left me standing at the base of the oak tree, speechless.
In a fit of foolishness, of reckless curiosity, I asked him that night of
what he had seen, of where the ladder had ended. I wanted to know.
The ladder doesn’t end, Dad. I got off in a field and played there for hours. The
sun was shining and there was grass and trees and footballs and everything! I
asked him what he meant when he said the ladder doesn’t end. I mean it
keeps going. It just carried on until I couldn’t see it anymore. Round and
round and round the tree. It must be a long walk to wherever it really ends. Do
you want to come with me, Dad? he asked. I said no, and that I never
wanted him to go back there. I said that we have trees and grass and
footballs and everything he would ever need or want right here. I said
that the ladder was dangerous and that until we knew what it was and
where it came from, I didn’t want him anywhere near it. He reluctantly
agreed, and yet his next words confirmed to me that it would be hopeless
trying to keep him away. OK, Dad. I’ll see if he can come to play down
here. I stared at him. Who’s ‘he’?
My friend, he said.
My God, I remember thinking. Just how long was he there? For me it was
a matter of agonising seconds, but he is talking like he had hours to play and to
even make friends. Just who the hell was up there? Is up there still?
That night, after my son had gone to bed, I took a glass of wine outside
and sat looking at the ladder in the failing light. I walked cautiously
down the garden, and felt immediately foolish doing it, and sat with my
back to the tree. I shut my eyes and tried to relive the afternoon’s
events. I found that the panic and fear I had felt was slipping away
(although I wasn’t sure that it wasn’t the wine helping me in that regard).
Had my son really been gone for hours, instead of the seconds I
had experienced? I even contemplated the notion that I had had some
kind of seizure or mental block. I drank and as the sun set and the darkness
really set in, I heard the noise. It was like the soft hooting of an owl,
which would have been no surprise, but it sounded like it was from another
place. By that I mean another… …
I can’t describe any of it without sounding like a mad man. It sounded
so ethereal and distant that it could have been coming from another dimension.
It didn’t sound like it occupied the same space as the other
natural sounds around me, the cars and the wind and the rustle of leaves
above my head. I can’t explain it any further. I unconsciously shifted
my position so that I half faced the tree and I looked upwards into its
darkness. I could see almost nothing of the ladder itself, save for the few
feet directly above my head, but it seemed to be emitting light, the
faintest fluorescence, its passage through the trees marked with a blue
aura. Whereas the solid ladder seemed to vanish into the tree, this aura
seemed endless, and looking up at it was like looking into a spiralling
image reflected from mirror to mirror, over and over. It had no end that
I could see. I coughed, more to break the unearthly silence that had descended,
and at that sound the haze vanished and I was left looking up
into the tree like some deranged night-time bird spotter. I shook my
head to clear it and went back inside, but not before the faint hooting
started again. This time it was accompanied by hissing and growling
that came from nothing I could imagine, nor would want to. Despite
myself, by the time I reached the back door, I was moving at a healthy
jog.
At breakfast the next morning my son has a wild-eyed look about him,
as if the dreams of the night were with him still. I asked him about them,
and he said nothing. I saw him glancing past me, through the open kitchen
window. Down the length of the garden. I said nothing of my experiences
of the previous evening, not the eldritch light, the noises, the
feeling of impenetrable depth up into the branches. As I cleared away
the breakfast things, I watched my son play in the garden, thinking that
to deny him access to the garden and the ladder would only increase his
desire to get there. There was an almost deliberate skirting around the
tree and the area surrounding it, but I did not fail to notice the looks he
shot towards it. I wasn’t so far away that I could not hear him catch his
breath each time he came within four feet of the tree. My heart caught at
each of his stopped breaths and I imagined myself running from the kitchen,
just too late to grasp his heel as he disappeared into the tree. He
showed no inclination, however, of climbing again. I began to relax and
brewed some tea.
I carried the drink into the garden, along with my usual weekend
newspaper, and selected the bench at the top of the garden to begin my
week-long perusal of it. I had been reading for perhaps ten minutes
when I sensed rather than heard a change in the dynamic of his playing.
My heart stopped and I stood suddenly, lukewarm tea spilling into the
grass. A large drop fell onto the paper, where it ran the ink like blood
from a bullet hole. I stared at my son.
He stood at the base of the tree, one hand resting casually on the leading
edge of the ladder. His hair blew in a wind, but the wind seemed to
blow downwards, as if it was coming from directly above him. He nodded
slowly, and a wide grin split his face. He spoke, but the words were
lost to me. They should not have been. I should have been able to hear
him clearly, but I couldn’t. I started towards him, shouted his name,
Walk towards me!
It seemed he heard me at the last moment, turned to me, and as I saw
the look on his face, I broke into a run. It was the look I had seen the last
time he had climbed. Pure fear. He seemed to be imploring me to catch
him, stealing glances up the ladder so that I was sure he was seeing
something up there. He spoke a word, and for the life of me, I was sure
it was not English. I have not heard its like before or since that moment.
Its guttural bubbling sound was utterly alien coming from my son’s
mouth. I saw his eyes roll upwards until they were white, and as he
started to slump forward, I threw myself at him in a vain attempt to
catch his fall. I was beaten to it, however.
A long arm snaked downwards, fastened on a shoulder, and pulled
sharply on my son’s body. The hand at the end seemed too long, and
thinking back now I know I that I had convinced myself that I saw pink
flesh and dark dusting hair on the back of it, and not that dark indigo
scaling horror. I know now that it was no human hand that snatched my
son. I collapsed onto the grass and stared weakly up into the depths. I
saw nothing. No sign of my son or the thing that had taken him. The
worst thing of all, perhaps, is that apart from that crawling malevolent
word he uttered before he fainted, my son made no noise. There was no
cry as he was taken, no sign that he even knew what had happened.
Good god, I wasn’t even sure if he was alive. I sobbed into my cupped
hands and raced back to the house, my first instinct to phone for help. I
stopped myself with my hand in the receiver of the telephone. What on
earth would I tell the police? That my son had been snatched up into the
canopy by some monster that used a never ending ladder as its route
through the tree? They would take me away as soon as look at me.
I walked in a daze back to the tree, fearful now that I would see my
son’s slumped body at its base, drained of life, and the creature (if that is
what it was) crouching above him. The area around the tree was free
from such visions and that was somehow worse. I reached the ladder
and craned up into the darkness. Nothing. I started back to the house,
desperate to do something, knowing there was only one thing that I
could do. I fought with myself for minutes, precious minutes that I
knew could mean the difference between finding my son and not. I
curse those wasted minutes now.
Fast, so as I could not stop myself, I rushed back to the start of the ladder,
and leapt the first three rungs, running up it using feet and hands.
At first I did not take in my surroundings, but it soon became clear that I
should have easily cleared the height of the tree, and hadn’t. I slowed
my ascent, and looked to either side.
I saw a vista so strange and alien to me that I nearly lost balance on the
rungs of the ladder. Unthinking, I stepped from it and the ground beneath
my feet seemed to thrum as I made contact with it. The earth here
was a deep shade of ochre, nothing strange in that, but the grass shooting
through it was the colour of spun glass, transparent and yet catching
the dull light and throwing out spirals of twisted rainbows in every direction.
I reached my hand to it, and snatched it back quickly as the
edges parted my skin like razor blades. No playground this, then. As
much as I wanted to stay and explore, despite the obvious challenge, I
knew (and prayed) that my son was not here and so moved on up the
ladder. There seemed no end, each rung a door to as new and equally
alien a landscape as that first. A breeze ruffled my hair. I smelled
something in that breeze, familiar. It smelled faintly of ice cream and
heat and joy, and I recognised the scent of my boy. Like a dog after a
trail, I moved my head this way and that, until I thought I had detected a
lightly stronger scent off to my right. I shut my eyes to focus on it, and
stepped off the ladder.
It felt like stepping back onto the land around my house. Smelled the
same too. There were noises here, as those I had heard from the base of
the tree, hooting and exuberant whistles. I opened my eyes, and saw the
table off to one side, the one I am sitting at right now, sitting in a patch of
bare ground. The earth was the red colour of the Australian outback. To
all sides, I saw fields upon fields of deep yellow corn, alongside tall trees
that stretched into infinity. Beneath all of it, the redness of the earth
looked like sunburned skin from which the corn grew like hair. I though
I saw movement in the corn, shadows and flitting shapes that leaped and
cavorted among the dusty stems. I stared harder but this only served to
blur the edges of my vision and so I looked away. On the table I saw a
pen and paper. Hooked over the back of the chair that accompanied the
table, as casually as if it had been at home, was my son’s jacket. I rushed
to it, expecting to find something, some warmth in its cloth that would
give me a clue. It was cold, and as I drew nearer, I saw splashes of mud
coating it. I grabbed it up and crushed my face into it. I shouted my
son’s name again and again until my voice cracked and failed me, the
sound thinning as it raced across the expanse. Clouds of dust and dried
corn husk rose from the fields as if in response to my calls, but I neither
received, nor expected, further reply.
I sat heavily at the desk, feeling the chair creak under my weight, and
spread my son’s coat out in front of me. I absently picked at the flecks of
dried mud, thankful it was not blood.
I looked down at the red ground, not wanting to see the way my
hands shook, not wanting to see the way they looked in the pallid yellow
light of this place. My mind was filled with voices, all clamouring to be
heard, all saying one thing or another, all mine. I bit down hard on my
lip to snap myself out of this destructive thinking. Blood slowly filled
the gap between my lower lip and my teeth and as I tasted the bitterness
of it, my eyes found something on the ground at my feet. A tiny depression
in the hard soil, no more than a fingers length. A swirling pattern in
the middle of it, concentric circles the size of a small coin. I jolted in the
chair so hard that my thighs caught painfully on the underside of the
desk. I stood suddenly, tipping the chair backwards, and still clutching
my son’s jacket, I sank so that my face almost touched the earth. The
voices in my head quietened suddenly. I knew this pattern. I had seen
its like rendered numerous times in mud on the floor of my kitchen. It
was my son’s shoe print, I was sure of it, and now that I had seen one, I
seemed to see them all. Some were only traces of the print, some more
full, and they led in a weaving pattern away from the desk and into the
cornfields. What my eyes also found, and what I tried to not see, were
the prints next to them, crossing them, scuffing them out. They looked
vaguely bird like, long and slender with three distinct trailing scratches
at the front each, as if made by three claws dragging with each footstep.
I stood and looked around. Apart from the desk and the ladder shimmering
blue in the air next to it, all was red earth and yellow corn.
Without stopping to think, I tucked the arms of my son’s jacket into my
jeans and started following the footprints.
The going was hard, strangely so, as if the very ground was holding
me back. My feet seemed to drag, and I had the strangest thought that if
I possessed sharp claws, they would leave that weird little dragging
scratch in the earth like the ones I was following. When I looked down
at my feet I saw that the redness of the earth had crept up the legs of my
jeans almost to the knee. I thought, no, I knew, that when I looked away
the ground would be reaching up again, grasping my legs, slowing me
down. I called out my son’s name suddenly, not liking the hoarseness of
my voice, but calling again anyway. A flock of birds exploded from the
cornfield, black as crows but twice their size at least, oily blueness shimmering
from their wingtips in the low sun. They were a way off too, and
I had no desire to see them up close. I watched them depart with no
little relief. I allowed myself to think that the noise they made as they
flew, the barking calls they made unlike any crow I had ever heard, the
hissing as their wings exited the dry corn, completely masked the call
made by my son as he answered me. Despite their racket, I almost heard
him, I am sure of it. If I had made the sound up in my head, would I
have added details like the obvious sound of his distress, and the low
guttural rumbling that could only have come from his captor?
I began to run then, mimicking the birds’ flight with my own, obliterating
the footprints and the claw prints, tearing my legs through the
grasping soil, seeing a red rain of dust flick from the ends of my shoes as
each left the ground. The low rumble that I imagined was the voice of
my son’s kidnapper grew louder and I almost thought I saw a flash of indigo
scales as it sped away through the corn field. I screamed as loud as
I could manage as I ran, the name of my son becoming indistinct, morphing
into a single strained syllable of wrenching pain. I thought I heard
him again then, all trace of the hypnosis he seemed to have been under
gone and simply fear and anger and sadness and loss remaining. I urged
my legs to move faster and sensed the ground under my feet responding
to this as the creeping redness reached to my knees and then further,
clawing at my thighs. Still I ran. Hours passed, or seemed to. My watch
was still running, but I wasn’t sure I could trust its timing. In the blink
of an eye, hours would pass, and then time would slow so that I seemed
to cross vast distances in mere seconds. I heard the shuffling steps of the
kidnapper at every twist and turn of the corn plants, and as they slowly
merged and then vanished into forests of deep green trees, the sounds
grew quieter and eventually stopped altogether. I slept when I literally
had no strength to stand, but the sleep was fitful and seemed to last no
more than minutes. My watch said differently however, and a day, and
then two seemed to pass. I felt time’s progress in the growth of stubble
on my face, but in nothing else. I did not eat and I drank what water I
could find in the forests, praying I would not sicken before I had found
my son.
It was perhaps two days, or maybe two and a half when I eventually
saw him, I was so shocked that for a moment I didn’t recognise him. He
stood some distance from me, on the edge of the forest as it turned back
to the red dusty ground. I was close enough to see streaks of tears cutting
through the dirt on his face. Close enough to smell him. He stood
with his head bowed, and as I scanned around for his tormentor, I saw
nothing. I looked back to my son, heart racing, words drying in my
throat, and I reached for him. He caught my eye suddenly, and the look
in his eyes stopped me cold. It was blank fear, and yet he seemed to be
telling me something with tiny movements of his head, shaking this way
and that. He looked to his right and then left and again shook his head.
I saw a grimace of pain cross his face then, and he crumpled slightly. As
I looked to either side of him, and he was lost to the periphery, finally I
saw what he was telling me. From the corner of my eye, I saw.
The creature was not gone. It stood, its many-jointed, bowed legs
dripping moisture and a glistening swollen sac of a body depending
from them, its arms wrapped around my son, scaled hands at his throat.
It shrouded itself somehow from me, so that when I looked back to my
son, it vanished. And yet now I had seen it, I couldn’t un-see it. I
gagged with the fear and revulsion, with the pain of seeing my boy harnessed
by such horror. The thing tugged at him and he stumbled against
the soft body. A mouth opened on its flank, more a raw wet hole than a
mouth, but from it issued the same gargling sounds I had heard my son
speak in the moments before his abduction. I wasn’t sure if it was talking
to me or my son, but I saw him nodding gently, and I sensed his fear
subsiding, or at least abating for the moment, both in his eyes and the set
of his body. His hands, that had been fisted tightly this whole time,
slowly unclenched, and I was close enough to see tiny white crescents on
his palms where his fingernails had dug in.
Go back, Dad he said, and my heart stopped at the sound of his voice.
Go back to the ladder and wait for me.
I began to protest, but days with mere mouthfuls of liquid had turned
my voice into a silent scratch and I’m not sure he would have heard even
if I had continued. As it was, he held his hands out and implored me.
Dad, please! Go back. Wait at the ladder and I will find you. I’ll be back, Dad.
I promise. I love you, and I’ll be back. Now GO!
The creature wrenched my son onto its back suddenly and now I saw
it fully. I gagged again and started running towards the spot where they
had been standing, but I was too late. They vanished in a cloud of red
dust, and I heard him shout as they went.
I’ll be back, Dad
I sank to my knees and watch them leave, the dust settling just
enough for me to glimpse the bright red of his tee shirt before it was
shrouded in distance and mist and dry, cracking corn plants. My raw cry
of loss followed them where I could not.
I am back at the table, back where I began my story. I wait for my son
as any father would. It took me less than a day to find my way back, and
I followed what markers I could remember and what footprints remained.
The birds were back in the cornfield, their cawing and flapping
sounding like the crackle of fire in the dry vegetation. I hold in my mind
the sound of him and the sight of him and the smell of him, and I know
he will return to me. He promised and I believe him. There are sounds
in the distance, have I mentioned that? They seem to be getting closer. I
have moved the desk right to the point where the ladder is visible
through the trees.
I had a moment of inspiration and tied his jacket, which miraculously
remained with me this whole time, to the last rung of the ladder that I
stepped off. I think I might search for him on further rungs and in further
worlds, or even go home. Just for a while, and I know now, or think
at least, that I can find my way back here. I have written my son a note
explaining what I have planned, but he promised me, and I believe him.
I’ll be back, he said. I need to be here when he does.
The jacket, still tied to the ladder, is flapping in a soft breeze. It reminds
me of home, and the sound, like a kite or a flag in summer, comforts
me. Every few minutes, I leave off writing and walk a distance and
start calling my son.
So far I have heard nothing, but he promised.
