The sudden silence halted his struggle against the weight pinning him. With his left arm trapped by its weight, he couldn’t gain the leverage to move the cabinet. The growing numbness in his legs, also pinned, offered scant hope that they’d be joining the effort.

As the last sound of battle choked away in the next room, his gaze swept around as much of his surroundings as his limited vantage allowed. Night had barely begun to fall, yet the place was shrouded in shadows, along with the layers of dust or dirt, the heavy curtains set to keep the place dark through the daylight hours. His own weapon had skidded out of reach, and those of the fallen he could make out in the dull light were all too far away. He had a stake still in his belt, but on the wrong side, out of reach.

Even as his gaze swept over the bodies surrounding him, he knew he’d spot no signs of life, or movement, from them. Both his team and their prey lay strewn about, their strategy having gone bad quicker than he’d have thought possible. While they’d tried to adapt when they realised they were expected, it had already been too late.

He briefly considered changing himself, the greater strength of his wolf form increasing his chances of his freeing himself, but being so new to all this, he knew he’d lack the necessary control when he changed, and worried that the wolf would just lash out blindly, damaging itself as much as the cabinet. But if the survivor of the fight next door proved not to be one of his, he may have little choice.

His eyes fixed on the doorway now occupied by the survivor, a shape which didn’t bring any relief. The outlines of a long coat drifted behind as it stepped into the less murky darkness, identifying the form as definitely not being a member of his team. It moved towards him with a casual step, taking a roundabout path, but he knew he was the target of the stranger’s attention, so playing dead would do no good. He tensed, hurriedly running through his dwindling options, giving the cabinet a final, fruitless, shove.

“Is da poor widdle doggy twapped?” The voice held an aloof amusement at his struggle, which immediately set his nerves further on edge.

Abandoning his attempt to shift the cabinet, he focussed his attention on the figure’s movements.

“Don’t bother trying to rise, Jason.” The man glided closer, his elegant movements a match for his tone. “I assure you there’s no need for formality.”

Jason didn’t bother hiding his suspicion.

“Yes,” said the looming figure. “I know who you are. I’m an old friend of your father.”

A dubious glare greeted this proclamation.

The stranger inclined his head slightly. “Well, maybe not friend, but we did try to kill each other on a fairly regular basis.” Smiling, he sat near Jason’s prone position, offering the first real view of his face.

The features confirmed the suspicions his words had raised. “Adam Vaage.”

Adam inclined his head in greeting. “A pleasure to finally make your acquaintance.”

Jason stayed silent, his gaze flickering to the blade twirling between Adam’s fingers. What he could make out of the carvings on its ebon hilt matched those he’d seen in pictures of it, and the faintly curved blade glinted a threatening shade of silver.

“I suppose you’re wondering…” Adam glanced about as he began speaking, and Jason took advantage of the apparent distraction to dart his hand for the knife, just within reach. Adam didn’t even glance back as his grip on the weapon instantly shifted, its blade snapping around to greet Jason’s hand.

His hand flinched back, and Jason held back his pain as best he could, the sting of the slash cascaded into a jolt of agony as the silver boiled his blood where it cut. It took a moment to suppress the waves of agony as the burning slowly died away. Looking up, he saw Adam finish his survey and glance down at him with a wearied smile.

“If you’ve quite gotten that out of your system? Good. Now please don’t worry, I have no intention of doing anything to you. Not at this time, leastways. I’d hardly have invited you here if I did, now would I?”

“You invited us!?” Jason made no attempt to hide his doubt.

“Who do you think gave your people the tip about this nest of unaffiliated vampires?”

Jason glanced about at the dead, or rather inanimate, vampires. Their clothes and generally shabby appearance were a marked contrast to Adam. “This wasn’t your nest. You didn’t have anything to do with them, did you?”

“Oh, please don’t mistake me for one of these suckers? Living… here?” He glanced about again, with obvious distaste.

“I didn’t mistake you for something living anywhere.”

A more genuine smile greeted him this time. “No, I had nothing to do with them, other than selecting them as a suitable target for your people, and warning them of your attack a couple of minutes beforehand.”

“Why?”

“Why set them up, or why tip them off?”

“Either.”

“To allow us to meet, of course.”

His bewilderment openly displayed, Jason took a moment before replying. “And now that we’ve met? What are you going to do to me?”

“Do to you?” False shock overwhelmed him. “Why, whatever kind of monster must you take me for?”

“A blood-sucking abomination of nature.”

An indifferent shrug conceded the point. “Who has no intention of doing anything other than leaving you for your back-up units to rescue.”

“So why go to all this trouble?”

Adam met his gaze before looking about again. “You know, I do miss your father. Did he ever tell you about our fights?”

“No.”

Adam glanced back at Jason. “Never?”

Jason kept his tone steady, but couldn’t quite hide his unease at the path of the conversation. “No.”

Adam shrugged. “I enjoyed those. It is so rare to find a decent enemy these days. Someone you can actually respect. Then he met your mother, left the life, became a…” he glanced up, searching for the word. “Pedestrian, I suppose. And he died a pedestrian death.” He dropped his gaze to meet Jason’s. “Of that I am truly sorry.”

Keeping his features firmly fixed, Jason offered no response.

“So then I hear that you’ve joined the Hunt, and I just knew I had to meet you, to see whether you could possibly live up to your father.” He ran a disappointedly appraising glance over Jason. “But I suppose you are still new to the game, so I’ll give you some time to grow into it.” Rising, Adam looked down at Jason.

“So, what? Because you and my father were enemies, now we are, too?”

“Oh, we’re not enemies, Jason. Not yet, anyway. We’ve only just met, and I’ve yet to find something admirable about you.”

“Admirable?”

“Of course. One must always admire something about one’s enemies. Otherwise they’re not really enemies. They’re just obstacles.” With a smile he turned to leave.

“That’s it?” Jason glanced around. “Everyone here killed, or rekilled, just so we could meet?”

“And for the fun of it.” Adam flashed a grin as he turned and strode away. “You be a good little doggy now.”

Jason bit back a retort as Adam faded into the darkened doorway, the sound of his departure quickly overwhelmed by that of the back-up team moving through the building.



The wolf fought for release. He felt it struggling against his hold as his mind embraced the change. A torrent of rage broke against him, and he strained to keep it in check, to maintain his focus. Running through the meditation techniques he’d been taught, he found the waves of sheer aggression almost too overwhelming, always clawing for his attention. Uncertain of his ability to hold it back any longer, he released his grip on the change and pushed the wolf back down inside.

He forced his mental processes to calm, recalling happier memories to help his mind relax. Inevitably, he went back to the time before he’d been forced into this world, when he was still in college, with Sophia. His thoughts calmer, he pushed the memory away, intending to find a new memory with which to relax himself next time. This one just reminded him too much of what he’d had to leave behind.

Opening his eyes, Jason realized he’d been shaking with the strain, and noticed the sweat trickling over him. Taking a deep breath to calm himself, he suppressed his irritation. Coming so late to this, he lacked the control those more experienced with the techniques could manage, so he couldn’t safely assume the full wolf form without the rage taking over, let alone manage the more useful hybrid stage. His lack of control made him a liability on intensive combat missions, so he’d found himself generally limited to investigative jobs. Which held a certain interest, but he still felt as though he should be doing more.

Stretching his back and neck, he turned as he heard movement at the doorway, the sounds of the pubic part of the building drifting through. Ostensibly a gym, serving the nearby financial district, the Clans owned the place, and at least a third of the floor space was restricted for their use, either single exercise rooms like this, or larger ones for group combat training.

Having recognized his uncle’s barely discernible tread before he turned to regard him, Jason eased himself to his feet, coming to attention.

“Jason.” Robert Miller came to a stop just before the practice mats. He exchanged a cursory nod with the trainer seated off to Jason’s side, the taser at hand as he supervised the exercise.

Jason no longer found himself as put off by the presence as he initially had. Everyone had to have a supervisor when learning the control exercises, and he found the presence now eased his concerns that he’d lose control of the change. The anxiety itself seemed to make concentrating on his control harder, so after the first few sessions the supervisor had become a reassuring safety net, rather than an imposing observer.

Robert focussed his attention on Jason, a quick glance seeming to take in how the session had gone. “I have a job for you. I’m afraid it’s urgent, so I’ll need you to cut short the session.”

Jason nodded. “Should I grab a quick shower first or do you want to brief me here?”

“Get cleaned up and presentable, but don’t take too long. I’ve got a car with me and I’ll brief you on the way. I’ll wait outside.”

Robert said nothing as Jason entered the car, waiting until he’d pulled them into the flow of traffic before turning to his nephew. “Have you heard about Councillor Reilly?”

Jason gave a slight nod. “I heard he was found dead this morning. There’s a rumour going around he was murdered. Someone said it could have been a vamp, but that kind of claim isn’t exactly unusual.”

Robert grimaced. “He was found dead early this morning. It looks like murder. But there’s nothing I’m aware of to indicate vampires, so please don’t go repeating the rumour. In fact, since you’ll be investigating, you should keep any information about the murder between us.”

Jason nodded. “Will it just be me looking into it?”

“You’ll be lead. How much do you know about Reilly?”

“He was a Council member. And a businessman. He ran some of the Clan’s companies. That’s about it, I think. I don’t know that I’ve ever met him.”

“Probably not.” Robert glanced at Jason. “He was also heavily involved in the peace talks.” A definite hint of something seemed to flick across Jason’s eyes at this. “Peace talks in which the Council are heavily invested, and which they wish to see continue, so this murder is highly politically charged, and needs to be resolved quickly, hopefully without too many rumours spreading about vampire involvement.”

“And if there turns out to be vampire involvement?”

Robert exhaled slowly. “Then we’ll deal with that when it occurs, but I need you to approach the case with an open mind. I don’t want you going into this looking for a vampire killer.” He pulled a folder from beside his seat and handed it over.

Taking it, Jason nodded, opening it and scanning the contents. Robert had hoped his relative newness to this world would give Jason less inbred animosity toward vampires than others he could have assigned, but there were increasingly larger elements of the clans who had more certain views towards their ancestral enemy, and he wasn’t too sure how much of an influence they may have over Jason. There were probably a few members of the Hunt who shared those views, anyway.

Nevertheless, he didn’t expect the following news to be greeted too warmly. “Due to the nature of the current political situation, you’ll have to work alongside an agent from the other side of the talks.”

Jason’s eyes barely flickered as he met Robert’s, but there’d definitely been something there. “You mean a vampire!?”

“Yes.”

“Why? If this doesn’t have anything to do with…”

“Because the Councils have decided that this investigation deserves close scrutiny, due to the potentially explosive effect rumours could have if allowed free rein. We don’t need premature retaliatory strikes setting off another war, so the situation is to be closely supervised.”

Jason turned to stare out the window. “Who am I working with, then? Someone from the Order?”

“Not sure, but I don’t think so. They’ll just be there to observe, and I suspect the Order will have someone else conducting their own investigation out of sight, so if the killer does turn out to be one of them, they’ll hope to get to them first.”

“That’s assuming their Council isn’t behind it and haven’t already cleared away any incriminating evidence.”

“Assuming that, yes. Still, working with them means we get access to the vampire Council’s assets in the police, so we’ll get their findings quickly, and they’ll be prompted to treat this as a priority case. We’ll also get access to the murder scene.”

Jason looked back to the file in his hands. “Do we know if he had any business enemies from outside the communities?”

“None that I know of, but I’ll be debriefing some of the senior staff, and I’ll let you know if that raises anything relevant. Although he did apparently have a loud disagreement with one of his associates, just yesterday morning. Leonard Markham, the Director of Acquisitions and Mergers at the company. I’ve got him available for questioning by you, along with Reilly’s secretary, Michelle Grant. They’re both of the Clans.”

“Do we have anything else on Markham?”

“Nothing of note. What we do have is towards the back,” he gestured offhandedly to the file, “but I’ve skimmed it and nothing there seems particularly relevant. I can have people look at his accounts and background, if you think it worth doing after speaking to him.”

Jason nodded, without looking up. “Just those two I’m talking to?”

“Given that the company has certain interests in common with those of our fanged friends, the Council are reluctant to have many members of staff questioned in the presence of a potential commercial spy. We’ll have others questioned in-house.”

With a snort, Jason turned his attention back to the notes. “So am I just investigating for PR purposes?”

“No, you’re the lead. Consider this freeing up your time for the main avenues of investigation. I can also assign manpower to any other areas you want looked at.”

“Why me? For something this high profile wouldn’t you be better assigning someone more experienced?”

“You’re a good investigator. Apart from which you’re diplomatic…”

“Diplomatic?!”

“Poker-faced may be a better description. You can keep your cool and keep your feelings hidden, and you’re more even-tempered than some. Since this investigation could lead anywhere in our communities, I need someone who can work it without treading on too many toes than is necessary. Plus, someone more experienced could well have previously made enemies with people you’ll need to talk to. Discrete investigations aren’t exactly what we’re used to.”

Jason nodded his acceptance of the reasoning. “What about Reilly’s personal life. Anything not covered by this?” He nudged the file.

“Single, I don’t believe he had any long-term relationships, but he enjoyed socializing, and being seen out and about at the big events and popular clubs.”

After a quick glance out the window, Jason looked at Robert. “Where are we going? I thought he was murdered at home?”

“He was. But the police are all over it at the moment, and since that’s where any forensic evidence would be, it was decided to let their people get what they can from it first.”

“Decided by the vampire Council, I assume?”

Robert gave a reluctant nod.

“So by the time we get there, any scent the killer may have left could be totally obscured.”

Robert shrugged. “The police labs will treat the evidence as a priority, and they should be cleared out in time for you to go in soon. Hopefully soon enough to preserve any scents. For the moment, though, we’ll meet Chryles and your new partner at Reilly’s office. We get first look at that.”

Jason nodded, closing the folder and putting it aside. “Anything else I should know?”

“Just one thing. You’ll be coming over for dinner on Sunday, investigation allowing.” He offered a sheepish shrug of apology. “Mariah insists. You missed Ariadne’s piano recital due to a mission, and she insists on doing a repeat performance for her favourite cousin.”

Jason smiled as he turned his attention back to the file.

The elevator deposited them onto a mainly deserted floor of offices, a security guard solemnly letting them pass once he’d checked their IDs. A combination of windows and clouded glass, the place felt as though it was intended to be artistic, but Jason just found it irritating. The unnatural quiet blanketing the place didn’t help, as though its corridors were used to far more traffic during the daylight hours. But the floor had been ordered shut off until the police could get to it. A nod from the guard towards the main office at the far end of a long corridor indicated where they’d find company, and the hint of distaste on his face gave a good indication as to the nature of the parties present.

Jason walked silently alongside Robert, both composing themselves for the approaching interaction, as they caught faint glimpses of figures through the partly open doorway up ahead. The scents seemed obscured, as though their guests had taken steps to mask themselves out of respect for heightened senses of smell. But there remained a hint of the too-familiar aroma of undeath, which could never quite be hidden. The smell of long-dried death could be tolerated with practice, but it always seemed to put any of the Clan on edge, as though some genetic memory from their ancestors recognized the threat it presaged. He thought he picked up something else mixed with it, something vaguely familiar, but he couldn’t place it. Something about it just felt out of place. He’d only caught a brief whiff, though, barely enough to hold in his mind, so he returned his attention to his mental preparations.

The whisper of muted conversation drifted out to meet them, and Jason’s superior hearing soon identified the irritatingly superior tones of Chryles as he lectured his associate. The talking died down as Chryles stepped into view of the open gap between the doors, favouring them with an indifferent nod of greeting.

Under the aloof gaze, Jason surreptitiously ran through some breathing techniques, determined to hold his temper, and disgust, in check, and to maintain his composure while in their presence. He hoped the investigation wouldn’t take too long, whatever it uncovered, as he didn’t want to cause any political problems by killing his ‘partner’. He shortened his stride to allow Robert to enter the room first, following behind and coming to a stop alongside him.

Chryles' associate turned as they entered, but her scent hit Jason with a torrent of memories before he even saw her face.

“Misters Miller,” said Chryles, his tone a slow drawl as he enunciated each word, with no attempt at injecting his voice with any hint of warmth. “May I introduce…”

“Sophia!?” Jason couldn’t keep the shock from his voice as his practised calm abandoned him, his face betraying a surprise almost equalled by hers.
