Fire really shouldn't take so long to get going, should it? It had been dry a few hours now, yet his opponent had been tending the valuable pile he'd brought with him for five minutes, and Danath was growing anxious to get on with the duel. Or anxious to see whether his opponent could do as the rumours claimed.

Focussing on calming his nerves, Danath glanced around the small, roughly circular, plateau. Barely fifty paces wide, with most sides almost sheer. The side they'd ascended had been an awkward climb from sea level, almost forty feet below. Roughly flat, with only a few patches of rock jutting up, its floor of solid stone lay on a slight incline, and the only signs of vegetation covered the sides near the water, becoming sporadic further up.

A cool breeze wafted in, and he turned to squint at the sun, letting it wash over his dark skin. Just short of six foot, his lean, muscled form hid behind the loose-fitting trousers and long sleeved grey vest he preferred for duelling. Rain may have offered him an advantage, but potentially less of a challenge, so he was happy it had dried out.

Never losing track of his opponent's movements, he scanned the horizon, which offered a small number of similar peaks jutting out of the sea to varying heights. And, of course, Melmyrn, his home city, floating nearby. Its path had been diverted here for this duel, so that Thortus could watch from afar.

When the fire finally reached a decent size, his opponent stood, looking defiant. The man had arrived only a day ago, from the distant flaming islands of Tloth, and immediately challenged Danath. Apparently he'd killed the man's friend in an earlier Stoneweaving duel. Not that he'd recognized the name, or even remembered it now. Come to think of it, he couldn't recall this one's name. Tezal? Terzar? He felt sure it had a 't' and a 'z' in there somewhere. Never mind. His interest lay in what the man would allegedly use. Not that he'd have turned down a duel, anyway.

As champion he had to accept all challenges, and probably would have done regardless, simply for the thrill. But tradition meant that the loser would forfeit the stone used to the winner, and the base word if they didn't know it, so here he could actually gain something, other than just a valuable stone.

The inhabitants of the Tloth region had supposedly learned which gemstone and word allowed them to control fire, though they remained understandably secretive with the knowledge. But now an opportunity to learn it had fallen into his lap, and he didn't intend to lose it.

The man, Danath decided to think of him as Tezal, pulled a gemstone from inside his shirt. It shone a translucent reddish orange, and looked a bit like a tade, a gemstone he'd only seem pictures of. He couldn't quite recall its history, but suspected they'd now only be found in the Tloth region. Tossing the gemstone into the fire, Tezal said something Danath couldn't hear, and the fire shifted. Slowly at first, awkwardly, as though controlling it took effort, which he could understand. It appeared far more erratic than the stone and metal Danath usually used.

It stood, coalescing into a vaguely human shape, flickering and flinching with disconcerting irregularity as it grew, rapidly consuming the fuel used to start it. Tezal stood up behind it, waiting with a glare.

So he wouldn't be wearing it. Unsurprising, really, but Danath had held out hope it could be controlled enough to direct its heat away from the wielder.

Turning away, he withdrew the dark red gemstone, a dett, and placed it on a nearby outcropping of stone. "Luxthor", he said, and felt an awareness of the stone flood his mind. It contained a few flecks of metal, but not enough to matter, and responded easily to his thoughts.

Normally he used his favoured block of iron for duels, but against fire, stone seemed a wiser choice. Also, animating your weapon before a duel was considered poor manners, so he'd have had to lug it up here, which sounded too much like real work.

The stone animated into a human shape, and he turned as it approached, stepping into the hollow area within, which sealed with a thought. Only a couple of slits remained open for him to see, and to let in air. He flexed, aligning the thoughts sent to his muscles with those going to his armour.

Satisfied, he nodded to Tezal, whose fiery avatar advanced with erratic grace.

Moving forwards, Danath remained uncertain how to deal with it. The gemstone powering it appeared to offer the only solid matter he could see within, so it apparently didn't need any other fuel. Did it still require air? Trying to smother it may be an option, probably his initial one. The tade seemed relatively unprotected within the flames, but he didn't want to risk destroying it if he could avoid doing so, and removing it, even if he knew the word and could touch it with his flesh, would be illegal in a duel.

As they closed, the thing leapt forward, engulfing his armour in flames, and he barely closed the eyeholes in time, feeling a wave of heat crashing into his eyes.

He felt the thing grappling his carapace with its gossamer grasp, holding on firmly. Its heat pulsed through his link to the stone, but distantly, more as a concept than a sensation, and he sensed slight cracks beginning to greet it along his shell. Not enough to cause a problem yet. Certainly not before the lack of air would be an issue.

Grabbing the evasive form, he fell forward, unable to avoid a jolt from falling onto stone, no matter how well he controlled it. His opponent's avatar tried slipping out from under him, but he rolled around, fighting to keep it pinned, trying to grind it into the ground. It slipped free, though, shooting to his left.

Rolling to the right, Danath scrambled to his feet, risking a quick opening of his eye slits, as much for air as to spot his enemy. It charged him again. Taking a deep breath, he sealed the slits before it hit, the force of the impact a strong gust of wind rather than a solid collision.

Rolling with the blow, he dragged it to the ground again, but again it slipped through his grasp, clambering on top of him this time. He rolled over, but it always managed to stay on top, and he realized he didn't know how near the edge they'd gotten. They'd first clashed near the middle of the peak, and the last glimpse showed more than half its width in front of him, but they'd turned away from there. He'd better not risk moving much further until he got his bearings. The fall probably wouldn't kill him, but he couldn't know how far under water he'd have to go to extinguish the thing, and whether his air would last.

Twisting to his feet, the stone shell matching his fluid grace, he flung the flaming avatar aside, expelling the surface layer of his stone avatar after it to push it away, and opening the slits as he did. The fiery creature stumbled around ten strides away, both of them around ten strides from the edge of the peak. A quick glance found Tezal over to the left, around twenty strides away.

Charging his true opponent, Danath caught a moment of panic in Tezal's eyes before his concentration deepened, and knew the fiery avatar would be racing to intercept, as Tezal scrambled around to use it as cover.

Glancing back at the avatar while maintaining his charge, Danath found it closing faster than he'd have liked. No matter how well he managed to merge with it, running in stone remained an exertion, both physical and mental, which had begun to take its toll. No doubt Elgren would put it down to too little practice. Nevertheless, the flaming avatar would catch him before he could reach Tezal. Time to see how well Tezal handled multiple fights, then.

Opening the front of the avatar as he ran, Danath sprang from it as he directed it to change course directly at Tezal's avatar. He slowed to a walk as his mind adjusted to the two of them no longer moving in synch, and he had to keep the avatars in sight to direct the fight.

Still backing away, Tezal looked flustered as he glanced between Danath and the clashing avatars. The flaming avatar tried slipping around, but found its path always blocked, its stony opponent flowing as it tried to grapple and smother the flames, no longer limited to a human shape. Danath charged Tezal, keeping the pressure on.

Both had short blades drawn, Danath's iron, and Tezal's looking vaguely coppery. Tezal's attention focussed entirely on Danath's approach now, as he tensed to meet him. His eyes adopted a puzzled look as Danath slowed merely steps away, and he only just managed to dive away from the pair of avatars, as Danath's charged through where Tezal had been standing with the fiery one in its grasp, continuing over the edge. While he didn't like to risk losing the tade, Danath had no idea how skilled Tezal would be with a sword, so the distraction seemed the smartest way to end this.

Spinning back to his feet, Tezal danced away from where his enemy had been, but not fast enough, as Danath caught his sword hand in a firm grip, holding it in place as his own blade found Tezal's throat. They remained poised as Danath's attention split back to their avatars.

They'd reached the water by that point, and he could feel the faint pressure all around his stone surrogate, merging with flailing streams of heat from the other's dying struggles. He had his avatar stretch its arms into a scoop beneath the fading thing, and relief washed over him as something drifted onto it. The gemstone secured, he began the avatar's ascent from the water.

Tezal's face showed his defeat, and he didn't struggle as Danath took his weapon, and directed him towards the edge of the plateau, from where he could see and direct the ascent of his avatar as it cleared the water.

His attention split, Danath faced Tezal. "What's the base word?"

With obvious reluctance, Tezal replied. "Thir."

"Thir," said Danath, as he held Tezal's eyes.

He could see the certainty of a doomed man in them. Which changed to confusion as Danath slid his blade into its scabbard, turning from his defeated opponent, to meet his avatar as it returned.

Obviously he hadn't expected to survive losing a fight. But Danath had no reason to kill him now. Why did people always expect that of him? He killed when paid to. Or when a duel went that far. But with his opponent's avatar beaten he'd won, so had no need to kill. If he went killing anyone at any time, people may get the idea they didn't have to bother paying him all that much, and then he may actually have to get a proper job. No way did he intend to let that happen.
