Unusual for an Australian house of the 1960s era, it had a cellar in which Gillian imagined keeping perishables. She wanted a cellar because the house design in “Modern Living” magazine, which she had read in the dentist’s waiting room, had one. But the kitchen, admittedly quite basic, had a large refrigerator so the cellar, she imagined, might come in handy once her husband could afford the wine to make it a wine cellar.

Gillian liked the kitchen, at the centre of the house linked to the dining annex which she also thought of as a play area. A cleverly positioned room divider separated the kitchen and lounge room with its large floor to ceiling windows, the full width of the house. A three seater leather lounge and two armchairs were her pride of joy. Her father had made her a Tasmanian Blackwood coffee table and bookshelf. The house had a formal dining room and a small bedroom on the ground floor. Upstairs, three bedrooms with built-in wardrobes had views of the bush and the bay. The master bedroom had a luxurious floor to ceiling tiled ensuite bathroom and a walk-in wardrobe. In short, Gillian’s house was a modern, comfortable house for a modern family.

Her friends admired the house very much for its open plan design and its clever use of space. Those who weren’t Gillian’s friends, called her A frame house “The Pyramid”. That was technically and geometrically incorrect, as Gillian pointed out. Envious, wagging tongues called her Cleopatra, Queen of the Nile, mostly behind her face. Gillian kept the house very tidy and true to her list, dusted on Wednesday afternoons, vacuumed the floor on Thursday and washed the kitchen and laundry floor on Saturday and smiled.

At the Bowling Club annual dinner dance, which she attended to please her parents, Gillian was quite prepared to be bored stiff and sit the evening out because she was plain looking and wasn’t a very good dancer. A nice looking man, she soon found out his name, asked her for a dance, led her back to her table and quick as a flash, found another dance partner and showed off some fancy steps. He was tall, good looking, athletic and very sure of himself, Gillian thought. His name was Brian Mountjoy and he stood at the bar talking to her father, smiled and shook hands with a few people and caught her eye. He looked in Gillian’s direction again and she was pleased he did but did not like him dancing and chatting with other women. He smiled, walked over and made Gillian promise to save the last dance for him. She didn't know what to make of that move, but the disappointment on Brian’s face was plain to see when she left the club with her parents.

She drifted off to sleep thinking of him, the way he had held her close and wished it had been closer. His cheek had been close to hers, trying to make conversation amid the noise of the band playing the Rolling Stones “I can’t get no satisfaction” and the noisy crowd singing along. Had he said as much? Had she said as much? No, Gillian decided. She would never admit to a lack of satisfaction, or would she? What would Brian do if she said so? How far would she let him go on their first date? Gillian was good at kissing if the experience with two boys and their say-so amounted to anything. Brian would be a good kisser, surely, and he was a man, not a boy. The more she thought about him, the more she wanted to feel his hands and would let him. Let him do what and where would they meet?

Her mother answered the phone the Sunday after the dance and called Gillian to the kitchen. It was Brian and Gillian spoke to him for an hour from the extension in the lounge room. It didn't matter what Brian said. She couldn’t remember the conversation only his ever so smoky, so smooth and so sexy voice. Yes, they would have lunch on Monday.

Gillian phoned her office from Brian’s flat to say that the food she had for lunch had given her an upset stomach and that she should be alright by the following day. Brian’s first kiss and touch had set her aflame and she explored his body and wanted all of him then and there. “I can’t get no satisfaction,” she whispered hungrily again and again. They spent a passionate afternoon and an exhausted Gillian took a cab home. Her mother looked at her as only mothers can and knew. Gillian went to her room, forgot about dinner, lay on her bed and put her hands to her face and body. Brian’s scent, his aftershave and sex were on her hands and on her body. She went to sleep wishing him next to her. She had become a woman that afternoon- Brian’s woman and she would see him again and be with him forever. They spent a weekend at Lakes Entrance where Brian revealed that he would have to go back to work in Bass Strait where he worked as a painter on an oil exploration platform. Gillian became part of his 10 days on-10 days off routine but living with his absence was made bearable by and having Brian around for an uninterrupted 10 days.

Brian was angry, very angry at Gillian. Had she not taken precautions? It didn't matter to Gillian, for being pregnant was a joy and getting married was the logical next step, surely. Brian had no relations, well none he wanted to invite to a wedding and the bitterness in his voice made it clear that Gillian best avoid the subject. Brian wanted a Registry Office ceremony and Gillian, who had dreamt of a church wedding, reluctantly agreed to please him. Her mother looked on and her father and a mate of Brian’s acted as witnesses. The newlyweds spent a week at Lorne, which was not the Gold Cost honeymoon Gillian would have preferred, but she was married to Brian now and that, in itself, made her happy.

The first few weeks at the flat were pleasant enough as they settled into a routine dictated by Brian’s work demands. It would all change, Gillian promised herself, once the baby was borne. Brian would look for a job locally, she would make him breakfast and lunch and he would be home evenings and weekends. He might, with her help, start a painting business with Gillian running the office. Then they could visit her parents more often, spend weekends at the shack, get a tan and watch the baby make sandcastles and play in the shallows.

Quite unexpectedly, Gillian’s mother called at the flat one evening because, as her mother pointed out, the telephone had been disconnected.

“I didn't want to trouble you at work. Your phone bill is long overdue.”

“Brian pays all the bills, Mum,” Gillian explained. “He must have forgotten.

I’ll pay.”

“No need to, dear. You father will pay the bill. Do you have it handy?”

Gillian explained to her mother that all their mail went to a post office box that Brian had kept on after they married. The following evening, Gillian answered a knock on the door. It was the landlord’s agent who handed her a business card, apologized for the intrusion, but as the rent was overdue because the cheque had been dishonoured and because letters had been returned ‘no longer at this P.O. Box’, he had no choice but to call in person. Gillian’s went to her bank the next day for cash to pay the back rent and a month in advance. She filled in the withdrawal slip and handed it and her cash card to the teller. He gave her a puzzled looked and then called for the manager:

”Is this a joke?”

She nearly fainted when he told her that she had $1.19 in the account after $4,200 had been withdrawn in one transaction. The helpful bank manager spoke to her father who arranged to have her account topped up. Gillian feared the worst when her father asked her to come home for tea and ‘to sort a few things out’, as he put it.

Gillian was in no fit state to drive home from her parent’s house that night after her father revealed to her and her shocked mother some disturbing news. Gillian’s credit card had been used for cash advances totalling $1,500. Her father had given Brian $2,500 of his own money to open an account at his bank. This amount was half the deposit needed to buy a two bedroom unit. Together with his savings, Brian had sufficient funds to secure a mortgage for a two bedroom unit. He had sworn Gillian’s father to secrecy as the purchase was meant as a surprise to celebrate the baby’s birth.

Because her husband was not due home for two days, Gillian decided rather than wait and fret, to make enquiries. The real estate agent gave her the returned letter. It was addressed to Mr. B. Miller c/o a local post office box. The Postmaster revealed that he had cancelled the box because of non payment. There was further disturbing news when Gillian called at the exploration company’s head office. There was no history of a B. Mountjoy or B. Miller working on the company’s offshore platform. Gillian that evening searched the flat, every drawer, cupboard, wardrobe and shelf. There was nothing connecting her husband with the flat.

An anxious Gillian waited for Brian’s footsteps and the sound of him whistling which told her he was in a good mood. He put his suitcase down, embraced her, swung her around gently as he always did and kissed her passionately. They went out for a counter tea and to the movies.

“I had a bit of a scare with the baby,” she lied as they lay in bed awake. “I

couldn’t even contact you because I have no phone number.”

“Is the baby alright?”

“Nothing to worry about, sweetie. Just in case I need you, who do I speak to at the company?”

“Just leave a message for me at Port Welshpool. They’ll get in touch by radio.”

But Gillian wasn’t that easily put off and asked:

“In what name?”

“What do you mean, what name?”

“There is no B. Mountjoy working on the oil rig,” Gillian stated.

“Or a B. Miller.”

Brian turned away from her and that worried Gillian. His answer was slow in coming.

“Oh that,“ Brian laughed it off. “I can explain. It’s a tax thing. I work two

jobs. Seven days on the platform and three days in Lakes Entrance painting.

It’s simply a case of dodging tax.”

Gillian didn't believe his explanation but avoided probing for fear of more dubious explanations or worse: making her husband angry. They had never argued, never had there been any ill feeling between them. She loved her husband and wanted him around.

“So who do I ask for when I want to get in touch with you?”

His evasiveness brought her close to tears.

“Well?”

“Well what?”

“Who do I ask for?”

“I got fired. I haven’t been on the platform for a month.”

Gillian wanted to scream: where have you been all this time? If you were out of a job, where did you stay? What have you done with my money? Is there someone else? She didn't want a confrontation and just lay silently. For the first time in their married life, they didn’t kiss each other good night.

Breakfast was interrupted when the power went out. Gillian looked at her husband accusingly and said:

“I suppose they’ll cut the gas off next. I don’t get paid till Friday.”

“I’ll take care of it,” Brian declared.

“Thank you. And how will you spend your day while I’m at work?”

Brian gulped down his coffee, put on his coat and walked out. The front door slammed shut. Another first, Gillian thought, walking away without explanation.

“Not good enough Brian,” she mumbled under her breath. If her husband was reluctant to explain then she had to find some answers. She opened his suitcase and went pale at the sight of bundles of cash - mint fresh banknotes. Gillian took $9,000, the money Brian had taken from her accounts, her father’s gift to him and for bills paid. She didn't want to know how much was left in the suitcase or where or how her husband had come by what looked like many thousands more. She gave in to the urge to search the suitcase for explanations and opened a large yellow envelope. A birth certificate for Brian Mountjoy, two marriage certificates in addition to her own and rates notices for two properties made her uneasy. There were three drivers’ licenses with three different names and five credit cards in different names in a worn wallet. There was also a photo album. Gillian turned to the last page and saw a woman’s smiling face, a toddler holding her hand and Brian standing besides her. There was also a bundle of letters with handwritten addresses and a few unopened invoices addressed to a post office box she knew and one she didn't. Did it matter that her husband had a past? What man didn’t? What mattered to Gillian now was the present, the future and honesty in their relationship. Gillian copied the addresses on the rates notices - just in case.

She picked up the phone and thankful for dial tone, rang her office to say that she would be an hour late because of urgent family business. She took a taxi to her father’s bank and deposited $9,000 into his account.

She found it difficult to concentrate on work and was quite uncertain of her next step. A confrontation now or later? The truth, a candid explanation, more secrets or walking out? The baby’s kick decided the matter. She would return home and let matters run their course. But she would tell Brian about taking the money from his suitcase-if he asked. Gillian was grateful that the power was on and prepared the evening meal as though nothing had happened. She ate alone during the 7 o’clock TV news and went to bed at 10.30. She woke briefly when she felt the mattress move, gagged at the smell of stale beer and cigarettes, hurried to the toilet and vomited.

Another first, Gillian noted: a drunk husband. He was still in bed when Gillian left for work. A phone call from her father, just before leaving work, unsettled her. Brian had called on him at the bank for money to pay solicitor’s fees and conveyancing costs. When her father offered to pay the bills, Brian at his most persuasive manner, explained that it was a matter of saving face. He didn’t want someone else paying his bills. But his father-in-law refused to give him cash and Brian left empty-handed.

Should she ask her husband why he needed cash from her father when there was so much cash in the suitcase, Gillian wondered. Brian had his good reasons she decided and she would not mention the phone call from her father. A nice steak, pepper gravy and a bottle of cabernet sauvignon would surely get him into a good mood. But Brian, his face red with anger, stood in the middle of the kitchen, screamed at her and blamed her father for the house and land deal falling through.

Gillian feigned surprise and wanted to know more. But Brian refused to be drawn, saying only that he couldn’t be bothered building them a house now that her father had spoiled everything.

“It’s not too late,” she offered. “You can still surprise me. Show me the block where you want to build. Please, darling.”

But Gillian’s attempt to placate her husband had the opposite effect. He became angry, refused to reveal his plans because now he didn't have the money.

“But you’ve got all this cash,” Gillian said and wished he hadn’t. But it was too late.

“You’ve been snooping! You have no right to my things. How dare you? The money isn’t mine, you stupid cow,” Brian screamed, his face red and distorted with rage.

He grabbed Gillian by the shoulders and when she tried to push him away, he smacked the side of her face. She didn't see a punch coming or feel the impact of her head against the edge of the sink. She was unconscious and oblivious to the kick to her abdomen and another to her side as her husband lost all self control.

He slammed the front door so hard the glass broke. He returned from the pub and found Gillian lying where she had fallen. He picked her up, put her in the car and dropped her off at emergency. “She had a fall,” he explained and left. He had the decency at least to telephone Gillian’s parents.

“She’s in a coma,” the doctors advised the distraught parents. “She’s had a

terrible beating. There is a worrying swelling of her brain. We don’t know

as yet the extent of inquiries to the foetus. We are also concerned about her

right kidney.”

Gillian’s mother visited her daughter at the hospital every day for ten months and while still in a coma, Gillian gave birth to a female child. Because there was no certainty that Gillian would any time soon regain consciousness, the child was placed into immediate care and adoption. When Gillian awoke from her coma, the doctors and her worried mother realised that all was not as it should be. Gillian did not know who she was and apparently, had no memory of the events that had resulted in her hospitalisation. When she had difficulty falling asleep and seldom getting a good night’s sleep, her doctor prescribed luminal tablets. She remembered getting married. The baby! “What happened to my baby?” Neither Gillian’s mother nor the hospital staff, if they had answers, revealed what happened at the hospital.

Gillian moved in with her parents and over many weeks slowly recovered from her trauma. She had nightmares, difficulty sleeping and on doctor’s advice, started taking medication again. On her first outing, without realising why, Gillian drove to the flat where she and Brian had lived. She had a key in her handbag, let herself in and sat at the kitchen table. The memories flooded back. The argument with Brian. She felt her cheek and realised that on that day, she had experienced another first: physical, domestic violence and she wondered what she had done to provoke her husband into an assault.

There were no dishes in the sink, the tea towel hung on the oven rail and the tea caddy still had tea. There was milk in the fridge, cheese, cream and butter. Butter? Gillian wondered. She never liked butter, never bought butter. She wandered into the bedroom where an unfamiliar dressing gown hung on the hook behind the door. The shoes on the rack were not her size. A key turning in the front door and the door shutting put an end to Gillian’s curiosity.

Two women stared at each other, surprised, bewildered and at a momentary loss for words.

“What are you doing in my flat?”

“What are you doing in my flat?”

“It’s my flat,” Gillian replied.

“No, it’s not,” the other woman argued. “My husband and I live here. Get out!”

“Rubbish,” Gillian asserted herself. “Brian and I live here. See, I have a key.”

“Brian? My husband’s name is Brian,” the other woman replied.

“Brian Mountjoy?”

“No, Brian Miller. I am Julie, his wife.”

“Does your husband work on an oil rig, 10 days on and 10 days off?”

“How do you know that?”

“Well, my Brian does. And that’s him in the photo,” Gillian said and pointed to a photo in a cheap frame. She felt too ashamed to revel to a stranger that Brian no longer worked on the oil rig.

“Hang on. I have seen a photo of him and you before. With a toddler. A photo in his suitcase.”

“That’s our daughter, Melissa. She’s at the crèche at the moment.”

“How long have you been married to Brian?” Gillian asked.

“Three years.”

“And you?”

“Just over a year,” Gillian replied. “But I haven’t seen him for months.”

“How come?”

“I have been in hospital for ten months and recovering for a few weeks,” Gillian revealed.

“I think you should leave now,” The other woman said, icily. “You are going to cause trouble and we don’t need you interfering.”

“I’ll leave but I’ll be back. He won’t get away with dumping me for you. He’s my husband and we had a good life together.”

“Out! Get out!! I don’t want you here when Brian comes home!” the other woman yelled and went to open a drawer.

“He’ll be home soon and you have to go. Leave now or else!”

She menaced Gillian with a carving knife, came forward and yelled:

“Piss off or else.”

When Gillian refused to budge, the woman stabbed at her but Gillian was quick, seized her harm, twisted it and pushed the knife into the woman’s side. Blood gushed out when Gillian pulled the knife clear.

“Help me,” the woman begged. “Stop the bleeding.”

The tea towel, pressed to the side, soaked with blood, failed to stem the flow. Gillian rushed to the bathroom, returned with a towel to help the woman, now slumped on the kitchen floor. Her face was pale as she lay in a widening puddle of blood.

The telephone rang and a panicked Gillian let it ring out. But soon it rang again, insistently.

“Hello.”

“Is that you, Mrs. Miller?”

“No, her neighbour.”

“Melissa is here at the crèche. Is she going to pick her up?”

“Oh! I forgot, I was meant to pick her up. I can’t come right now, no way. Not for another half hour. If I pay for a cab, will you bring her home, please?”

“Oh, alright. But just this once,”

“Thank you. Thank you very much.”

By the time the front door bell rang, Gillian had washed the kitchen floor and eliminated the blood trail from the kitchen to the bedroom where she left the lifeless woman. Gillian answered the front door, ushered the child inside and thanked the crèche manager who refused payment as she had come in her own car.

Gillian’s mother was surprised to see her daughter and the little girl who happily played with Gillian’s old toys.

“I’m looking after Melissa while her mum’s in hospital,” Gillian explained.

“Is her mother someone from work?” her mother wondered.

“Yes,” Gillian lied. “And I’ll look after the toddler. With your help.”

“For a moment I thought you had kidnapped a child to…” her mother said and laughed off the thought.

“Very funny, Mum,” Gillian rebuked her mum and smiled. “I have to go to back to Julie’s flat to pick up some things for her to take to the hospital. Don’t wait up for me.” Gillian turned to Melissa, smiled and cuddled the child.

“Your mum won’t be long and if you’re a good girl, you can have ice-

cream. Would you like that?”

At the flat, Gillian ignored the dead woman in the bedroom, found Brian’s suitcase and broke the look with a screwdriver. There was no money. A loaded sawn-off shotgun, cartridges, a ski-mask, gloves and a bunch of keys startled her. Maybe it wasn’t Brian’s suitcase at all? Yes, that must be so, she decided. She had believed him when he told her that the money she had found before wasn’t his. After dark, Gillian drove her Datsun Bluebird onto the footpath, as close as she could to the front door. No one saw her dragging the dead woman to the car and lift her, with some difficulty, into the boot. She knew just where to dump the body: the Blairgowrie back beach where she dug a shallow grave with a metal hearth shovel she had found in the flat.

Gillian showered, put on one of the dead woman’s nighties and dabbed on some of her perfume. Now all she had to do was wait, in bed with the lights off. Brian would be home soon, perhaps he was working late? Gillian woke when the front door slammed shut. Brian was in a good mood. She could tell from his was humming and she soon felt his weight on the mattress. Brian did just what she wanted: his hands searched under the nightie for her breast and she pushed hard against his erection.

“Geez, Julie, you’re tight,” he whispered and moved rapidly against her from behind and soon spent, lay on his back and snored. He had been drinking and smoking but that was a small price to pay, Gillian decided, for the happily married life soon to be hers, again.

She would have to break it to him gently in the morning: about Julie leaving him and dumping the kid. How would she know why? It was Julie who upped and left when she found out about him being married to Gillian. But the explanation would have to wait. Gillian woke at 7 o’clock and Brian had already left the flat and that was a surprise. His suitcase was beside the bed. Gillian needed to know, opened it and what she had anticipated and feared was true. She remained in the flat all morning, always within earshot of the radio, listening and hoping not to hear the news that told her what she didn’t want confirmed.

“What the fuck are you doing here?” Brian yelled. His face, at first ashen when he found Gillian sitting at the kitchen table, turned an ugly red.

“Where’s my wife?”

Gillian could have challenged him, replying ‘I’m your wife’. But instead she gave a rehearsed explanation.

“Julie’s gone. For good. She dumped you.”

“So, last night?” Brian was perplexed.

“Me. You made love to me,” Gillian answered. “It’s good to be home.”

“This is crazy!” Brian screamed, headed for the bedroom and shut the door. When he returned, Gillian had a cup of coffee for him.

“Just as you like it,” she declared. Brian sat at the kitchen table, scratched his head and lost for words, slammed his fist on the table. Gillian sat quietly, anxious not to provoke her husband.

“Turn off that fucken radio.”

Gillian complied then picked up her purse and a shopping list.

“We’re out of fruit and vegetables and there is no meat. What do you want for tea?”

“Nuthan. I won’t be in till late,” Brian replied. “Don’t wait up.”

Gillian’s mother was concerned about the fretting child. She had asked no questions, even though she wanted to know where the child’s father was. Gillian, when she was ready, would explain. She was relieved when Gillian rang.

“I really think you should take Melissa to see her mum. The child is very upset.”

“Please tell her that I’ll pick her up soon,” Gillian replied.

“Promise?”

“Promise,” Gillian replied and put the phone down. “I’m on my way.”

Melissa seemed happy to be home but Gillian couldn’t satisfy the child’s insistent and whining ‘I want my mummy to come home’.

“Soon,” Gillian reassured the child. “She’ll be home soon and your dad will be here too.”

“I don’t like him,” Melissa said. “Make him go away.”

“You must not say that, Melissa! Be nice to your daddy.”

“He’s not my daddy,” she complained and added: “Who are you?”

“I’m Gillian. I’m looking after you while your mummy is in hospital.”

“Hospital?”

“Your mummy is sick. That’s why she is in hospital,” Gillian explained

Brian was still asleep when Gillian took Melissa to crèche. She was a bright child who knew the way and made Gillian promise to pick her up. Melissa ran up to the crèche gate and called out, ‘Three o’clock.’ On the way back to the flat, Gillian bought steak and sausages and new potatoes with her own money, just in case Brian needed dinner.

He had left $3,000 on the kitchen table, crisp new notes and unopened window face envelopes, bills for electricity, gas, telephone and another from the landlord’s agent. They were addressed to Mr. B. Miller at a local Post Office box. All the bills and also the rent, were overdue but Brian’s money was sufficient. He was a good provider, Gillian reasoned but not very capable at managing the household. Never mind, she sighed, all that was in the past for she would take care of the house and little Melissa. By the time she had paid the bills and called in at the real estate office to pay the rent and three months in advance, it was time to collect Melissa. Gillian waited at the kerb, not wanting to meet the crèche staff again. Melissa smiled and when Gillian bought her an ice cream, soon forgot about visiting her mum in hospital. Over time, Gillian imagined, Melissa would get used to Gillian as her new mum. When she was old enough to understand, Gillian would tell her about her mum abandoning her. Meanwhile, Gillian was determined to be a good substitute. She ignored the telephone and when it stopped, rang her mother who was happy to learn that all was well. When the phone rang again, Gillian unplugged it.

Brian did not come home that night or the night after that. He’d be home on the weekend for sure, Gillian wished. She listened for the door and hurried to hang out the washing for she wanted to look her best, the perfect, immaculately dressed wife, ready to greet an adoring husband.

It wasn’t Brian wanting to come in. He had a key. When the insistent knocking on the front door became louder and louder and when Gillian could no longer stand it, she opened the door a crack.

“Yes?”

“Is Julie home?”

“Nobody by that name lives here,” Gillian replied.

“But this is their flat,” the middle aged man insisted. “We know she lives her. We are her parents.”

“I assure you,” Gillian said calmly and persuasively, “I live here on my own.”

“I’m Julie’s mother. I haven’t heard from her in days. We know that Melissa still attends crèche and someone who is not Julie picks her up.”

“I’m sorry, I can’t help you,” Gillian replied and closed the door.

“We’ll be back,” Julie’s father threatened.

Gillian took Melissa to her parent’s house and returned after dark, grilled the steak and had it with boiled potatoes. Loud banging on the front door nterrupted her peace, but she ignored the demands.

“Open up. We know you’re in there. The police will be here in a minute.”

“Go away!”

Gillian picked up her purse, left by the back door and stood in the side drive, near the rubbish bin. The Police didn't come and when the visitors took off in their car, Gillian returned to the flat and went to bed.

She awoke to loud talking in the flat. Brian came into the bedroom and whispered:

“Say nothing to the Police. My name is Miller. You are my girlfriend. Leave the talking to me.”

But Gillian thought it best to answer the detective who asked what she knew about the missing Julie Miller and her daughter Melissa. Gillian answered truthfully that she had lived in the flat for only five days. She had lied to Julie’s parents about Brian living in the flat because she was too embarrassed to tell strangers about living with her boyfriend.

With the Police gone, Brian let fly.

“They think I’m responsible for Julie’s disappearance. I’m not and I can’t

afford them snooping around here. The child is still going to crèche and

someone is still picking her up. Julie would never leave without the child.”

“I’ve told you. She’s dumped you and I don’t know where Melissa is,” Gillian replied.

“How do you know her name?” a suspicious Brian asked.

“From her parents. They came to the flat yesterday,” Gillian answered, proud of her quick thinking.

“Julie’s parents won’t give up. The police will find out who picked Melissa up from crèche. They’ll be back and I’ll…..”

“You’ll what?”

“I’ll have to come up with explanations. Something I don’t want to do. They might come back with a search warrant. They could even be watching the joint,” Brian feared.

“If that is so, you’ll want to be rid of the evidence. What’s in your suitcase for instance,” Gillian said.

“You would get rid of evidence for me?”

“Sure. You’re my husband and with Julie out of the way, we’ll be happy. Won’t we?”

“Out of the way? Why did you say out of the way?”

“I didn't,” Gillian argued.

“Yes, you did. Out of the way you said.”

“I meant gone. Julie’s gone,” Gillian replied. “That’s what I meant.”

“The suitcase. Find a safe place for it,” Brian urged.

“The police won’t be watching me,” Gillian said to put Brian’s mind at rest. “You’ll be alright. And then, you’ll get yourself a regular job,” Gillian proposed.

“What do you mean?”

“Regular. Wages, salaries, steady hours. No more bank and TAB jobs.”

“You know?” Brian asked in amazement. “And you never asked?”

“I read the papers. Thankfully you never did over banks in Victoria. No one got killed. Your secret is safe with me.”

“It’s not that simple. I have a partners and he…” Brian hesitated and insisted. “Go now. Go!”

Two detective constables were indeed watching the flat and noted Gillian’s departure, the suitcase and the Datsun’s registration number.

“What’s in the bag?” I wonder.

“Nothing too heavy, by the look of it,” his colleague observed. “She won’t be going far.”

Little Melissa was happy to see Gillian and Gillian’s mother was much relieved. She looked questioningly at the suitcase.

“Just stuff I need to store for a while,” Gillian explained. “Mum, do you know where my tennis bag is?”

“It’s in the junk room,” she replied.

Gillian rummaged through years of accumulated stuff, found her tennis bag, tossed rackets and balls into a corner and went to her bedroom with it and the suitcase. She put it at the foot of her bed and stared at it. “Right”, she mumbled, “you leave me no choice.”

During the twenty minute drive back to the flat, Gillian considered her next move, what Brian might say and her replies. It would all work out, she reassured herself. Brian’s crime spree would come to an end now that she knew of it. Gillian looked at the tennis bag and smiled. Just in case. The detectives, still observing the flat, noted Gillian’s arrival, the tennis bag in hand and the female child.

“Is mummy home?”

“Not for a few days, sweetie,” Gillian replied, picked up the child and tickled its ribs which made the child squirm in delight.

“Got a lovely surprise,” Gillian teased.

Melissa saw Brian asleep on the living room lounge.

“I don’t like him,” she whispered. “Let’s go back to your house.”

“No. This is your place. Brian will be nice to you. I promise.”

“I want my mummy,” Melissa whimpered and started crying which woke Brian.

He rubbed his eyes, looked at Melissa and then at Gillian.

“What the fuck’s going on?”

“Please don’t shout and swear in front of the child. She’s upset enough as it is,” Gillian said.

“So it’s you! You’ve had Melissa all the time? You’ve been taking her to

crèche?”

“Yes, I had no choice. She’s been at my parents’ house on and off.”

“So where is Julie?”

“I told you! She’s dumped you,” Gillian insisted.

“I don’t believe you. She would not leave the child behind,” Brian asserted.

Banging on the front door and the call “Police” put an end to the conversation. Gillian rushed to the bedroom and tossed the tennis bag on top of the wardrobe.

“You’ll have to answer the door,” Gillian said.

“I’m not letting them in. Not without a search warrant,” Brian replied, walked to the front door and called out:

“What do you want, copper?”

“Is Melissa in the flat?”

“Fuck off, copper.”

“We’ll have a search warrant in half an hour. Just don’t do anything stupid.”

Gillian refused to answer all questions the police put to her at the station. Brian was truthful in saying that he had nothing helpful to say. Melissa was released into her grandparents’ care. Gillian and Brian were released without charge but that was not the end of the matter, the Detective Sergeant threatened. Charges would be laid soon and the investigation would continue but for the moment, the police had nothing on which to hold them.

Brian and Gillian sat in silence in a cab on the way home but Gillian knew that Brian was irate. He had just unlocked the front door when a voice behind them called out:

“About bloody time.”

The unexpected visitor slammed the car door of his Kingswood Station Wagon shut and came to the front door.

“Go ahead inside, love,” Brian said to Gillian. “Bert and I have things to discuss.”

Whatever they discussed, Gillian knew by Brian’s jaw set hard and from his frown, that it was not of benefit to her. But they surely would work things out. They were husband and wife who like any other couple had their ups and downs. But Brian shattered all her illusions.

“Bert’s got a job planned. I need…”

“No. Please Brian. Put an end…”

“Shut up. I owe him. You would not understand. I don’t expect you to,” Brian snarled.

“I am entitled to…”

“No. You are not entitled to anything. I will tell you this much: I only agreed to marry you because I thought your father had money. Rich banker? Fat chance. But I found out too late. By the way I was already married then. I love Julie. I also have a wife in Lakes Entrance but we separated before I met Julie. I just can’t be bothered getting divorced. It was easier to get a new name. But you know that anyway from what’s in the suitcase. So where is my wife?”

And with that, Brian grabbed Gillian by the shoulders and shook her violently.

“Where is Julie? Tell me, you bitch! Where is Julie?”

“Gone. She dumped you!”

The smack with Brian’s open hand to the side of her face was unexpected and hard. It stung Gillian’s cheek and split her lip.

“She’s gone,” Gillian replied, ran to the bathroom and locked the door.

“Open the door, Gillian. Please,” Brian asked, a reasonable tone in his voice. “I’m sorry I hit you. It’s all getting on top of me, what with the police and Bert and Julie missing.”

“Is that a promise?” Gillian almost begged. “Please don’t hit me?”

“Promise. I promise. Just get the suitcase back,” Brian demanded.

“Fine. Let’s just calm down. I’ll be out in a moment. Let’s have a coffee,” Gillian replied.

“I feel like a beer.”

“There is none in the house,” Gillian replied.

“I’ll get some from the bottle shop,” Brian said.

Gillian knew what was coming. Brian would drink a longneck and another and another till he was tanked. He would never assault her again. Never. There would be a new first in her marriage, Gillian decided. With Brian was out, she had crushed a dozen luminal tablets with the back of a teaspoon and waited until Brian had drunk two bottles. Gillian poured the crushed sleeping tablet powder into a new bottle. Brian finished that bottle too and never noticed the taste. He was soon comatose, slumped on the lounge. Gillian smacked the side of his face, gently at first. He didn’t wake and she smacked him harder. He mumbled in his drugged stupor and raised a hand in defence.

Gillian sat calmly and confronted her future with a drunk for a husband, a thief, a deceiver, a bank robber, adulterer and bigamist. She smiled at thinking of her husband as a trigamist, if there was such a word. She really felt sorry for Julie and the accidental death. Soon the police would come knocking on her door. No amount of cleaning could erase traces of her blood on the kitchen and bedroom floors.

Gillian stood on a kitchen chair and reached for the tennis bag on top of the wardrobe. All was ready for the suicide. The shotgun was loaded, a cartridge in each barrel. “Sorry, Brian,” Gillian whispered as she lay the weapon on Brian’s chest with the short barrel under Brian’s chin. She grasped his right hand and forced his thumb on the trigger and pulled. Nothing! She tried again with the safety catch off, closed her eyes, averted her face and pulled Brian’s thumb against the trigger.

Gillian undressed in the bathroom and showered to wash Brian’s splattered blood from her face and hands. She stuffed her bloody clothes and the bath towel into the tennis bag. Gillian walked into the sitting room with eyes closed and never looked back as she gently closed the front door of the flat with all lights on. Gillian ate a meal of fish and chips in Frankston and put the empty beer bottle and the greasy paper in a rubbish bin in front of the take-away shop and dropped the tennis bag in a skip behind the supermarket.

The police returned with a search warrant the day after questioning Brian and Gillian. They forced the flat’s front door when their demands to open up went unanswered. There was little of Brian’s head left. Some of his brains and skull bones were embedded in the plaster wall and blood had soaked into the lounge cushions.

The detectives had little doubt about what had happened: A suicide after a bout of drinking. Forensic examiners found blood on sofa, cushions and blood splatter on the wall behind the sofa, consistent with a shotgun blast to the head. There were blood traces on the kitchen lino and blood stains in the bedroom carpet. It lent credence to the theory that Brian had murdered his wife and then, in remorse, had committed suicide. But where was Julie’s body?

According to Julie’s parents, their daughter’s marriage had been a happy one. Julie had never complained about violence. Still to be determined was the identity of the woman who had picked up Melissa from the crèche. A young, nosy and eager detective decided to investigate who had taken Melissa to and from the crèche. Something, he decided, what not right. His colleagues were satisfied that Brian Miller had committed suicide after doing away with his wife. Was Gillian an accomplice?

The crèche manager recalled the day, a telephone conversation with Julie’s supposed neighbour and a woman who had answered the door at the flat where Melissa lived. Now that the detective had a date for Julie Miller’s disappearance and his suspicions more aroused still, knew his next move. The Datsun’s registration number gave him Gillian’s address and armed with a search warrant, found Melissa at the home of Gillian’s parents. In the boot of Gillian’s Datsun, the police found blood stains. In the shed, police found a suitcase with its most incriminating contents, notably bank notes traced to a National Bank hold-up in Deniliquin, NSW. Before long, one Albert Denning confessed to being an accomplice. His name, address, phone number and details of his share of hold up proceeds were neatly kept in Brian Miller’s diary. The pair had robbed four banks and held up five TAB Agencies in NSW.

Gillian admitted that she had placed the suitcase in the shed. She could hardly deny this as her mother had seen her with it. The crèche manager positively identified Gillian as the woman with Melissa. The blood in the Datsun’s boot was of Julie’s blood group. The police had sufficient evidence, Gillian was charged with Julie Miller’s murder and tried in the Supreme Court. Still under investigation was Brian Miller’s suicide that looked increasingly like murder with Julie as the main suspect. But because the luminal drug, found in Brian’s stomach was the only circumstantial evidence, Gillian was not charged.

Gillian would not confess, pleaded not guilty to murder and took the stand. A packed court heard that on the day in question, Gillian had found a woman stranger in her flat. This woman then attacked her with a knife, Gillian defended herself and managed to escape unharmed and spent the night at her parents’ place. On returning the following day, the woman was gone and Gillian thought no more of the event. Under questioning, Gillian admitted knowing Melissa but denied abducting her. Why would she? Melissa was her daughter!

An astonished prosecutor and Gillian’s barrister looked at each other. The judge made some quick notes. Gillian’s mother sobbed softly and left the court in deep despair as Gillian continued with her story. A stunned court heard that Gillian expected her husband Brian to return shortly after 10 days working on the oil platform.

“He is a good provider but sometimes forgets to pay the bills. We plan to

buy some wine for his cellar. Also, he will redecorate our A-frame house.

He is a very good painter, you know.”

The judge adjourned proceedings and called the prosecutor and defence to a conference in his chambers. He strongly advised the prosecutor and defence to reconsider Gillian’s plea or adjourn the case pending a psychological assessment.

After a 10 day adjournment, the psychiatrist testified that in his opinion, Gillian Mountjoy was delusional and of unsound mind. “Is the accused putting on

an act?” the judge asked.

“No.”

The defence barrister asked for an adjournment, which the judge granted, to confer with his client and within the hour entered a new plea of ‘Not Guilty of manslaughter due to mental impairment.’

“Does you client understand what she is pleading?” the judge asked in his chambers.

“I cannot be certain, your honour,” the defence replied.

The judge, after another psychiatric assessment, sentenced Gillian Mountjoy to indefinite confinement in a secure mental institution.

“I want you to be certain that what you’re doing is best for you,” Mrs.

Arnold said to her daughter. “You may not like what you find.”

“I realize that, Mum, but I need to know about my biological parents,” Sylvia replied.

“And I’ll support you, no matter what,” the mother assured her adopted

daughter.

Sylvia’s first move, to apply for her adoption file, was the easy step. After waiting patiently for access, Sylvia accepted well meaning advice: seek counselling as the next step in the process. The file revealed that Gillian Mountjoy nee Carrington had given birth to a daughter who was placed in the care of her adoptive parents at birth. The hospital file entry ‘… incapable of caring for the infant.’ raised questions and Sylvia was determined to find answers which were agonisingly slow in coming as she pieced together snippets of information. A digitised newspaper edition was the breakthrough she so desperately needed. Sylvia now had a thread o follow and soon read the transcript of Gillian Mountjoy’s trial. She hesitated for weeks to contact the detective for information about her father. He asked for a meeting with Gillian’s mother and the adoption counsellor before meeting Sylvia. All agreed that Sylvia finding out about the circumstances of her father’s death was premature, considering that she had not yet met her biological mother.

“You have visitors, Mrs. Mountjoy,” the nurse said.

“Cleopatra. I am Cleopatra, Queen of the Nile,” the inmate replied. “Please remember that, Kathryn.”

“You’ve never had visitors since I’ve been here.”

“Oh, I yes I have. My husband Brian will be back again soon from Bass Strait. He works 10 days on, 10 days off. I miss my mother. She died seven years ago. She always remembered my birthday. What day is it today,

Kathryn?”

“It’s Thursday, Cleopatra.”

“I must do the vacuuming if it’s Thursday. I can’t have visitors in a dusty

house. Quick Kathryn, give me a hand.”

The nurse found the toy Hoover and pretended plugging it in. Gillian made the vacuum cleaner noise and ran it over the carpet in the hall, the sitting room and the kitchen/dining area.

“I think I’ll do the bedrooms next week in case my daughter comes to visit,” Gillian said.

“I’ll just go and show your visitors in,” the nurse said and beckoned Sylvia and her mother into the room.

“This is Sylvia and her mum, Mrs. Arnold.”

Gillian smiled and said: “Pleased to meet you. I don’t get many visitors

now. You have a fine daughter Mrs. Arnold. I have a daughter, she is a

redhead too and she’d be about your age, Sylvia.”

Sylvia was at a loss for words as she stared at her real mother. Gillian was 42 years old and as Sylvia knew, had spent the last 20 years at the asylum. Gillian’s skin was pale, she had no wrinkles and shapely well manicured fingers. She wore no makeup and her hair had greyed a little. Her grey-green eyes worried Sylvia. Gillian gazed, yes, it was a gaze, not a direct look, a gaze at a point in the distance.

“My husband Brian will be here soon. He works 10 days on, 10 days off

on an oil platform in Bass Strait. He is a painter, you know. He will decorate

our A-Frame. The bedrooms really need painting before my daughter

comes. But first, we’ll go to Rutherglen for some wine. He earns good

money you know. We can afford to stock a wine cellar.”

“How long have you had the A-frame?” a curious Sylvia asked.

“A long time. My father built it and some of the furniture too. My friends

admire the house very much for its open plan design and its clever use of

space. Those, who aren’t my friends, call my A- frame house The Pyramid.

That is technically and geometrically incorrect. They call me Cleopatra,

Queen of the Nile, mostly behind my back but I got used to it. I keep the

house very tidy. I dust on Wednesday afternoons, vacuum the floor on Thursdays and wash the kitchen and laundry floor on Saturdays.”

“We’d love to visit your house, wouldn’t we, Sylvia?”

“Come, come,” Gillian urged and walked to the corner of the room nearest the window. “Come right in. I’ll show you the cellar too.”

“But it’s…..” Sylvia said.

“It’s a lovely house. So unusual for an Australian house to have a cellar,” Mrs. Arnold said. “We’ll come again when you’re not so busy.”

“Good-bye, Mrs. Mountjoy,” Sylvia said.

“Call me Cleopatra, Queen of the Nile.”

Mother and daughter left the asylum with Sylvia in tears.

“The poor woman,” Mrs. Arnold lamented. “She lives in a doll’s house.”

“Only in her mind,” Sylvia added. “I guess I’ll inherit the doll’s house?”

“Only if you want to be Cleopatra’s daughter.”

“You know what, Mum? I think, I’ll leave asking about my father for a while,” Sylvia decided.

“That, my dear, is a wise decision. He might be a pharaoh?”

“No, Mum, he is a painter on an oil rig. He works 10 days on, 10 days off.”
