HARD EYES GLITTERED as they watched the dim figure behind the wheel. That long ago night, never forgotten. She would be the same – older, but that same contrived innocence as before. He touched the spot that she had touched – the scar that started below his right eye, curved downward, trailed along his chin. No feeling, as if his hand was touching someone else.

The car door opened slowly, foot hesitant as it touched the ground. When she closed the door he barely heard the sound. She approached, eyes wide in the moonlight, the flashlight in her hand still off. At the steps she stopped, looked down at them for a moment – straightened her body and climbed onto the porch. Her hand reached for the doorknob.

A grin split his face. His time had come at last. This time, she would not leave.

… 1988…

It was almost hypnotic, driving along this dark country road. Trees bordered the road on the right with the occasional farmhouse appearing on the left. I switched on the car radio and the first thing I heard was a song from my youth.

Donna’s face appeared in my thoughts. We were so different – she with her pretty blond hair and brown eyes, me with dark hair and blue eyes. She was confident and I always worried about everything. Donna used to tell me that was fine, “You keep me out of trouble Sara” she’d say, “you keep me safe” and she’d hug me. Our parents first met at the hospital the night we were born and we had been best friends ever since. I loved her dearly and couldn’t image life without her. Today we’d both be thirty-six. She’s been gone for twenty years and I still missed her.

I needed to close my eyes. Next pull off…and there it was! Doors locked, I sat looking at my surroundings. So quiet. The moon hung low and pale and yellow, throwing shadows across the landscape. This place looked familiar. Something had happened here long ago, and now it was trying to surface from the bottom of forgotten memories.

Déjà vu. My one true experience had been at an old cabin in a clearing in the woods. These woods. My friends disappeared from that cabin twenty years ago. I stopped the thought, closed my eyes, drifted…dreamt…

Laughter drifted up from across the years – voices I knew, friends from high school. All except Bill. He was Donna’s. He was also older and taboo. Donna didn’t care – she was mad about him and I couldn’t figure out why. He was tall and thin and always had grease under his nails. That was okay, but he never looked clean. Like he didn’t bathe often. But we put up with it – he had a car! There were four of us – driving along, laughing, passing cigarettes back and forth and sharing bottles of beer. All except me. I didn’t like the taste and said so. They made fun of me at first – tried to get me to drink but I never would. The radio blared country music and we all sang along. I was sixteen and in heaven. Donna was my exact opposite – wild where I was timid, brave where I was shy, defiant where I was obedient. I was not like them. But they accepted me.

Night quiet shrouded the fields, the road, the trees. Not even the insects made noise. Wide awake now, I reached for the key, started the engine and shifted out of ‘park’. That’s when I saw it – the road that lead to the old cabin. I was parked on it.

I began to pull away and the car stalled. It never stalled. I turned the key, the engine roared into life. Once again, I eased down the shifting lever, stepped on the gas pedal. The tires spun and the car swung sideways. When it stopped, I was looking into the dirt road. I sat, staring into that dark tunnel. Something was propelling me, or the car. “Okay. The car doors are locked, I won’t get out – just drive ahead a few feet.”

“I want to show you guys something really neat. I found this old cabin a while ago. We could come here and have parties. Have ta clean it up some, y’know – probably got animals living in it. It’s kind of falling down in spots – have ta be careful.” Bill’s voice, hollow, coming from that place in my mind. The road curved, light glinted through the trees. The sun was high and warm that day as we barreled through those woods.

“Almost there. Look! You can see it – right between those trees!”

Right between those trees. I came out in a clearing, bright in the moonlight. There it was, just like that day from my past. The cabin sat forlorn, it’s back to the woods, its front looking at me, waiting. The feeling came rushing back – squeezing my throat, making it hard to breathe. The door yawned open. I felt it pulling at me, like it did before. I wouldn’t go in. I didn’t want to go in then, either.

“C’mon Sara. You’re such a chickenshit.” Donna, trying to get me out of the car. “Maybe we’ll just leave you home next time. Jeez. It’s just an old, broken down cabin. Probably nobody lived in it for a hundred years. You baby!” I watched them all go inside. I felt miserable. They were right. Just a cabin.

So I got out of the car and walked toward the steps leading up to the small porch. When my foot touched the bottom step, the first vision came. I was going to walk into a living room, then into a small kitchen through a doorway at the far end of that living room. There would be a sofa along the left wall – plaid, with rounded arms, across from a long wooden table centered between two windows. Then came the color – red, bright – and wet. I really didn’t want to go in.

“Come on!” Donna poked her head through the open door. “ Jeez. I’ll never be able to live this down, y’know. Why do you have to be like this? There’s nothing inside ‘cept broken down furniture. It’s really neat. We could maybe form a club and this could be our club house. Betcha nobody even knows it’s here. Will you come on?”

She whirled around, disappeared behind the door. I followed, reluctantly. Inside everything was just where I knew it would be. There were two floors. Narrow steps lead up to tiny bedrooms under a low ceiling. Not much – more of a loft than a second floor. Downstairs in the kitchen a wooden table lay on its side, one leg missing.

“Somebody knows it’s here,” I said, pointing to cigarette butts in the corner.

“They been there forever,” Donna said. “The only thing here is animals… hey! I got a great idea. Let’s spend a night here! We could bring food, sleeping bags … it’d be a kick!”

“We can’t do that. Our parents would never let us.”

“Oh Sara, we could too. Just tell them we’re sleeping over each other’s house. You know they don’t check any more. We been doing that forever anyway and besides, I’m sixteen now. That’s almost grown up. ‘N so are you. Hey guys!” She let out a shriek and left me standing there. She didn’t have to convince anyone – they all loved it. Maybe I could get sick.

The trunk had as much junk food as would fit between the sleeping bags. The four of us – Bill, Donna, Jeannie and me – we had been here twice now and the cabin was as clean as possible, considering the shape it was in. We carted the food inside and piled it in the middle of the small living room. Next in came the sleeping bags, which we spread on the floor in a circle. Weak sunlight was streaking low and long through the window, causing dust to float around us.

“Anybody want a beer?” Bill’s voice came from outside, the last word punctuated by the heavy sound of his booted foot. He stepped through the doorway, grinning, looked at each of us in turn. The light did something to his mouth – broken teeth, that’s all I saw. No one spoke for a moment, then Donna reached for the bottle in his outstretched hand.

That’s when we heard it. Upstairs something fell. But it was the sound – half moan, half growl – pain, or anger – not quite human. The quiet that followed sent chills through me. We all stood there staring up at the dark opening. I don’t think anyone was breathing. I remember the wind starting, just a breeze, then harder. It came through the window, caught the door, slammed it behind Bill. It was getting dark and we didn’t have a flashlight. I know, because we looked on the ride up.

It got dark so fast that long-ago night. We were all together and then there was only me. Where had they gone? The door was slightly open now and the cabin wanted me. It had waited all these years.

I couldn’t shake the feeling that I was being watched as I stepped out of the car. My imagination? Probably just the darkness. I pulled the old wooden door open. Cre-e-ech! The noise, right out of a sci-fi movie. I turned on the flashlight and made myself look inside. “I must be nuts.” Shoulders back, I shone the light farther into the room, stepped inside. It was empty. A slight breeze tickled my legs and I pulled the door closed, remembering Bill’s grin and broken teeth. “Enough! Breathe – in, out – in, out…” My pulse slowed and I shone the flashlight up the stairs. The beam created weird dancing shadows on the dark wall. “What is up there? Did I go upstairs that night? Why can’t I remember?”

I walked into the kitchen and it, too, was empty. Back in the living room I again looked up the stairway. Low ceilings, dirty walls – I raised the light beam higher. That’s when I saw the color. Red. Smeared, like finger painting. It came out of the room, ended halfway down the staircase. Blood. The flashlight slipped. Pulse racing, I raised the light. A shadow passed through the beam – fleeting, gone. Adrenaline pumping, I turned, yanked open the door and ran for the car. My fingers were shaking so badly I dropped the keys twice before I could get them into the ignition. The engine screamed, I jammed the shift lever down. The car shot backwards. “Shit!” I drove the brake pedal to the floor, shoved the lever back up and hit the gas pedal hard. The quiet that filled the small space was louder than the engine had been. And then I did it again. This time the only response was the feeble turning of a flooded engine. That’s when I knew. I was going to spend the night here looking at the yawning mouth of that cabin. And whatever, or whoever, was inside would be looking back. I locked the doors, reclined the seat slightly so I could see outside – just in case. “I won’t go to sleep, just rest. When it turns light the car will start. If it doesn’t I’ll walk!"

… 1908…

There was just the two of them – a women and a little girl. The woman was pretty – soft oval face and blue eyes – Sara’s eyes. Her clothes were different – from a time gone before. Dark hair piled on top of her head, she was wearing a long dress that swirled around slender legs. The bodice had small buttons that stopped just beneath her chin. She stood, shading her eyes, looking toward the forest. “Jennie!”… a pause… “Jennifer Sarah! Where are you?”

“Here, Mama.” The little girl came running from the woods. Her small face was ringed with curls and long dark braids bounced behind her as she ran. Jennifer Sarah was eight years old and loved everything she came into contact with. Animals would come up to her as if she was one with them.

“Jennifer, I told you not to go in those woods. It isn’t safe. Why don’t you ever listen?”

“It’s okay Mama. Really. Just animals and they like me. Can we go now?”

She was standing on the porch of a small cabin nestled in the trees as her daughter, the only thing in life that mattered, narrowed the space between them, finally wrapping herself around her mother’s legs. She laughed and hugged the little girl. “Yes - I need a few things in town. You sit here while I hitch the horse up to the cart. Don’t you run off – I don’t want to be looking for you again. We need to go so we can get back before dark. Okay?”

“Okay.” She smiled her consent up into her mother’s eyes.

… 1988…

In my dream the clearing was sunlit and the cabin looked new. A slight breeze moved a wooden rocker that sat on the porch. A row of yellow flowers bordered both sides of the steps. A few feet behind the cabin, by the woods, stood a small structure with one door.

Awake now, I was looking at a cabin that was old and in disrepair – standing alone in the overgrown clearing. The daylight seemed to stop at the edge of the woods. “I should just leave.” It crossed my mind, but my hand was already opening the car door.

They used a horse and wagon in my dream. There was no electricity and no running water, so there must be a well someplace. My great-great grandmother had lived in a place like this. Something had happened to her. I felt it, but it wasn’t clear. Like the memory wasn’t mine, but was in my head.

I straightened my body and began the walk toward the woods. The path appeared soon after I entered the shaded glade. I moved slowly, ready to turn and run – just in case my legs refused to obey. Farther in, I could see a space that looked brighter where the path went around a tree. And I knew what I would find.

Graves, most of them marked with crude moss-covered stones. All except two mounds, marked with wooden crosses that had the remnants of what was probably names scratched on them – now mostly illegible. I stood looking around this small open area. Something was wrong. It should have been overgrown but it was neat. There were no weeds between the graves.

I couldn’t stop looking over my shoulder as I walked out of the woods. When I reached the cabin I didn’t hesitate. I knew I would go in, climb the stairs and look in the upstairs rooms. They held the key to whatever happened, and I had to know.

Now it felt different inside – almost like…coming home. When I looked around the living room I could see the sofa with the round arms and the table across from it. In the kitchen, I stood still, closed my eyes and inhaled deeply. Food. It was on the long shelf and there was a woman standing with her back to me. She turned and smiled at me. I reached out – she was so close. When I opened my eyes, the room was empty. I had the strangest feeling that I had lived here once. I didn’t believe in reincarnation – but now…

A friend had given me an exercise – a way to help me remember things I buried in my mind. “Sit in a quiet place, close your eyes, let your thoughts flow. Never dwell on one memory. Go backwards, ever backwards.” The idea was to take me back to places time had blurred. It had worked for me before, why not now? I retrieved a blanket from the car, spread it out in the kitchen below the window and made myself as comfortable as possible. I closed my eyes, let my mind drift.

Family – Mom – the last get-together with Grandmother Jen before her death. Conversations about the past. Dad’s frowning face. I wanted to stay up that night but mom insisted I go to bed. I couldn’t sleep. I got up, crept out to the landing, crouched in the corner. I knew I must be very quiet. Mom would make me go back to bed if she caught me. Soft music drifted up the stairs, then my father’s voice.

“Don’t bring all that old stuff up again, Evie. What good can it do?”

“I didn’t bring it up. Mom did and she likes to talk about it. The past is the only thing she can remember clearly – she can’t even remember getting up this morning. Let her talk. What can it hurt?”

“Well you certainly don’t want Sara to hear this stuff. She has nightmares as it is. Imagine her hearing about a family murder. We’d have to put her in therapy. Besides, no one ever knew for sure what happened. He just disappeared.”

“Sara’s in bed, Ken. She’s been up there almost an hour and it doesn’t take her long to fall asleep.” I could visualize Dad looking up the stairway and I almost went back to my room, but curiosity held me. A murder? In our family?

“Evelyn, you have to make sure you write all this stuff down and keep it”. Grandmother’s voice. “It’s our family’s history and Sara has a right to know. And I can too remember getting up this morning.” Her voice had a hurt quality, rarely heard from this once strong woman.

“I’m sorry Mom – I didn’t mean to hurt you.”

“Well, you did.” Grandmother’s voice shook. Everyone knew she was forgetful and hard of hearing. Normally she missed a lot of conversation. Not that night, though.

She spoke again. “I think it’s colorful, that’s what I think. Well, most of it anyway. All that other stuff – about a spirit – I don’t believe any of it. Besides, none of the family even knows where that old place is.”

I jerked upright, reflection broken. “That’s why this is so familiar! My great-great grandparents lived here! How in the world did I ever end up here – of all places!” Goose bumps raised on my arms. The past had somehow pulled me here, to this cabin. A horrible thing had happened – and I was meant to know. I wouldn’t give up. I leaned back, closed my eyes again.

Grandmother Jen’s voice. “Sara was named after her you know – your great grandmother, only her name was spelled with an ‘h’ on the end.”

“I know, Mom.”

“It was tragic, really tragic. My mother watched my grandmother endure so much. That night – all the noise up there. Mother tried to ignore it. After a while she just couldn’t take it any longer. She told me all of this before she died. I can still see her face when she was telling me – it looked like she was back there. Grandmother sat her down and told her not to move, then ran out of the kitchen and up the stairs. The next thing she heard was screaming, screaming, scream…"

… 1908…

Her mother was screaming. Something was wrong. She ran up the stairs, into the bedroom. Her father was hitting her mother and she was bleeding. Jennifer yelled at him to “Stop, stop, stop. You’re hurting Mama.” There was a revolver lying on the bed.

… 1988…

When I opened my eyes I was standing in the middle of the empty bedroom. Empty of everything – except… I felt it – an energy – pushing into my mind. A pressure that built in intensity, invading my head. I had to get out of this room! My feet wouldn’t move. I was smothering – there was no air! It took all of my will power to break free. I ran down the stairs, straight through the doorway – yanked open the car door. My foot was on the gas pedal even before I sat. I jammed the pedal down, twisted the ignition key. The engine screamed, roared into life – died. Before my mind caught up with my actions I did it again – this time, to silence. I sat, my hand still twisting the key, my foot on the gas pedal, tight to the floor. Finally I made my body relax, put my head down on the steering wheel and closed my eyes. Deep breathes, over and over, until the pounding inside my chest slowed.

“I have to stay.” In my mind I knew that if I left now, whatever was in that upstairs room would never rest. “One more night. It’s the cabin – it wants me to know. I’ll do the exercise again. I’m close and I can do this. I can! I will!”

I sat in the safety of the car a little longer, then got out and returned to the cabin. There was no feeling here in the downstairs rooms. I stood looking up the stairway, slowly started the climb. The feeling began when I was almost at the top. “Wait! Not yet. Later. I’ll come up later.”

Outside once more, the sweet scent of pine filled the warm air. Noises of the forest and the sounds of life beyond my vision soothed me. I sat on the steps, let my body relax. In the back seat of the car there was water and a few Granola bars. I carried these, along with another blanket, inside the cabin. The night ahead would be long.

The day passed slowly, and yet it seemed twilight came too soon. Stretched out on the blankets I watched the shadows grow longer. Now, there was only weak light shining from the pale moon as it rose above the trees. I closed my eyes, drifted – lulled by the songs of the night creatures…

… 1908…

“Here, take it.” He was holding the revolver toward her. “You need to know how to use it. We live in a place where it’s possible to get hurt, either from animals or people who want to take what you have. You have to be able to defend yourself.” Jennie took the gun out of his hand very gingerly.

“I don’t like guns, Papa. ‘Sides, animals won’t hurt me – I’m their friend.”

“Well maybe all of them don’t know that.”

“It’s heavy and I’m scared.”

“Jennifer, once you know how it works you won’t be afraid of it. What if your mama and me are gone and somebody comes to the door. What would you do? You know not everybody is good.” She looked at her papa and knew what he was talking about. After all, he wasn’t so good all the time. He hit her mama.

“I could run and hide” this, timidly.

“That might not work. You could be found. Now c’mon. You never have to touch it unless you feel scared and we’re not home. Or maybe I’m not home and someone is trying to hurt Mama. You could help her. Your mama and me – we don’t want anything to happen to you…"

… 1988…

Thump! Upstairs. It invaded the dream. I woke holding my breath. Thump!! Fear – a bolt of electricity. It started at the top of my head, shot down my body.

“Sarah. Sarah! Come up.” The words, in my mind. Low at first, then urgent – coming from that upstairs room. I didn’t move, couldn’t breathe. The words came louder. I stood on legs of rubber. “If I don’t move maybe it’ll…” The sound grew louder still, as if reading my thoughts. I forced myself to walk, stopped at the bottom of the stairs. When I looked up, that doorway looked like an open mouth, waiting to devour me. I backed up.

“Sarah!!” My legs gave way and I sat, hard. The sound was a wailing wind, crashing into my mind, breaking barriers, opening passages into forgotten places.

I moved forward, then upward until I reached the top of that long, long stairway. What little moonlight there was stopped just outside the bedroom door. The dark inside was an abyss of pure evil. I crossed the threshold.

“I’m here. Who are you? Where did you come from? What do you want?” He spoke inside my head.

“You know who I am. I pass into the minds of males. That’s why I brought the man here. When it’s time, I discard their bodies.”

“Did you hurt him – hurt my friends?”

“No, he did, the man named Bill. But I helped him bury them – showed him where. He is still waiting.”

“What do you mean…” I grabbed my head as the sound, deafening, burst into me.

“NO MORE QUESTIONS. Now you will listen. What she did was not right. She wanted the child all to herself – she wanted me to go. She had to be punished. She would have learned. The three of us could have all been together as a family. She couldn’t see it was her that was wrong – she should have taken her punishment. But no! She chose to end me! She killed me! You were too young the last time, but now you are back and you are one with her! You must pay for her sins!” His voice filled my head, circled around and around, words echoing, growing louder, louder… Then I was on the floor. The push felt like the force of a gale. I was lifted, flew through the air, hit the wall, fell. He came again and I rolled. The noise of his rage sliced through the cold air as he pushed. I hit the opposite wall. The doorway, lit by pale moonlight, penetrated the haze in my mind. I rolled toward the light. Before I reached it, I was airborne. Stunned, disoriented – I knew I wouldn’t last much longer. The next time I felt him coming, I tensed. When he lifted me, I dove out into the hall. His rage, a crescendo, roared behind me. I pulled myself out of the room and half crawled, half fell down the stairway. At the bottom I lay still, eyes closed, my mind – reeling. And there was silence, blessed silence. Moonlight was shining through the window and the feeling of rage was gone – for now.

I stood up, reached for the outside doorknob, turned it. Nothing happened. With both hands wrapped around that knob, I twisted and yanked. It was stuck. I would have to climb through a window. The only one large enough was in the kitchen. I reached for the partially open top window, pushed it up all the way. With my hands on the bottom sill, I started to lift myself. Something slammed down onto the back of my hand – the pain, excruciating. There was nothing in the window. I held on to the ache, reached up again. The same thing happened. This time the pain floored me. I cradled my hand, rocked back and forth. It felt like it was smashed. And I realized I would not be allowed to leave until this – whatever it was – was finished. There was no rage downstairs. I sank down onto the blanket. It would soon be daylight – then I’d figure it out.

Sun on my face woke me. I felt disoriented, achy. The night’s events came quickly back and I raised up on one elbow, winced, lay back down. My body did not want to move. Through half-closed eyes I gazed out at the expanse of floor – uneven old floorboards – like wood gets when there’s too much water… I sat up, suddenly wide awake. The floorboard in the corner. It was slightly higher than the others, as if it had been taken up and put back into place – but not quite. Probably nothing, but I walked over, ran my foot across the top. It was raised high enough to be over the side of my shoe. I reached down, pulled on the board. It didn’t move. Upon closer inspection, I could see pry marks. I pulled up again, with no luck. “Probably just old wood.”

I went back to the window. Where it had been open last night, it was now closed. I tried pushing it up but it wouldn’t budge. The front door produced the same result – still stuck. The cabin was very quiet. When I looked up the stairway, the entrance into the bedroom was dark. “There is no way I’m going back up there! I have to get out of here. There should be another door to the outside.” But there wasn’t. On the far wall in the kitchen there was a line. From where I stood I could see the shape – like that of a small arch. I ran my fingers along it. Maybe this was once an exit.

The raised floorboard again caught my attention. I needed a pry. My Swiss army knife! I opened the blade, sat on the floor and slid the knife in under the highest end. I pushed down. It didn’t budge. I forced the blade down farther and tried again. This time, it moved. The next time it moved even easier. Once more and the board popped up.

I couldn’t see anything except loose dirt. I reached inside, pushed the blade down into the soil. There was a metallic ‘thunk’. After a few minutes of trying, I pulled out a small metal container with a latch that hooked over a piece of protruding metal, keeping the lid in place.

Inside I found a few small pretty stones, an arrowhead, a large copper button. A child’s treasures, hidden beneath a floorboard. On the very bottom there was a folded piece of paper. It was a letter, written in a child’s hand.

But it was the contents of that letter. After I read it, I understood.

I stood at the doorway of that darkened upstairs bedroom and felt the presence inside. The urge to run, run, run – out the door, away from here was overwhelming. But I had to go into that room – make him understand. It was the only way this would ever end. Somewhere deep inside I knew the cabin would call me back – and if not me, someone else. He would have his revenge.

My hand touched the pocket with the letter tucked inside. I closed my eyes, willing him with my mind. I could feel his pull, just beyond the door – wanting, needing me to enter his realm. Without my fear to strengthen him, he had no power. “Just go in. Go in and get it over with. Move now!”

The door closed hard behind me. I walked into the center of a tornado. I was lifted, spun around, slammed into the wall. “Stop! Please! Hear me! I have…” The roar cut off the sound of my voice, his anger louder than a freight train. “YOU HAVE NOTHING TO SAY. YOUR ACTIONS SPOKE FOR YOU. NOW YOU WILL PAY!” This time, I stayed on the floor. My arm was yanked, I was spun around and around. With my free arm, I flailed out, screamed at him. “Let go! It wasn’t me! LET GO NOW!!!” And I stopped moving – the noise, now only a jumbled whisper. I jumped to my feet, raised my voice. “I am not her! I am her great-great granddaughter and YOU are my great-great grandfather and you’re trying to hurt me! NOW YOU LISTEN TO ME!”

The room was silent, my anger was intense. What was total darkness was now gray – his uncertainty changing the atmosphere. His turmoil swirled around me like a great unrest – but now with hesitation.

“There was a letter hidden under a kitchen floorboard. It’s from my great-grandmother, your daughter. Listen while I read it to you.”

“I did a bad thing. Mama said I would feel better if I write it down. Papa was hurting Mama and I shot him with a gun. But he told me I could use it if anyone was hurting Mama. He told me I could protect her. He said I could so I did. I don’t know if Papa meant from him, but he was hurting Mama so I did. I loved Papa. Mama said I did good but it doesn’t feel good. I don’t know why Papa hurt Mama but he did – a lot. Mama took Papa in the woods and I helped her because he was heavy. Mama said God would have Papa now. I didn’t know how he’d get him because she made me come back to the house. But I snuck back after Mama came home and Papa was gone so maybe God did take him. I feel really bad about what I did. Maybe Papa can read this and he knows I’m sorry I hurt him but he shouldn’t have been hurting Mama and maybe he knows that too. Mama said I would feel better after I wrote this but I don’t feel better. I miss him and I’m sorry for what I did. Jennie”

There was total silence. I stood for a moment, taking in the quiet. The room felt different, no longer disturbed. I turned, walked down the stairs. The cabin door opened and I went outside, breathed deeply of the clean air. The small clearing was sunlit and smelled like pine and flowers. Bird songs and warmth filled the air.

For the last time, I went up to the bedroom. Sun was shining through the small window. As I looked around the room, I felt a sense of peace. The feelings of rage were gone, along with my urgency to escape.

The car started with the first turn of the key. Once again driving towards home, my thoughts went back to the last couple of hours. “They never told anyone. Once I knew what happened, I found his grave – just a grass-covered mound with no marker. They must have left the cabin soon afterwards.” My glance went down to the tin box on the seat next to me and I vowed to keep her secret. A deep feeling of sadness swept over me. The morning I drove Bill’s car home after that night twenty years ago. So many questions, none of them answered – Donna’s family, Jeanne’s family – the police. I just couldn’t remember. The police had finally found the cabin. They came to the conclusion that Donna and the rest of them had decided to take off together. After all, they were a wild bunch and I wasn’t really like the rest of them. Time passed – their families never let go but the search ended. I’m not sure anyone really believed me, but they accepted my loss of memory.

They all watched me pretty closely for a while. I remember I didn’t feel much like talking and I know that worried mom and dad, but eventually things went back to normal.

I’m glad I could bring peace to great-great grandfather. There’s still gaps in my memory that I can’t bring back. Déjà vu – if I didn’t believe in it before, I do now.

Someday I would return to this place of my ancestors. A quiet cabin – a great place to write our family history. Grandmother Jen would like that.

… LATER…

The cabin sat, in peace at last. Summer turned to fall, leaves began to drop and the winter came fast and heavy. Wind found its’ way down the path into the woods, circled the graves, rested in a small funnel over the mound by the tree line. Leaves blew into the air, the funnel turned into a swirling black cloud, reversed its’ direction. The cabin door slammed as wind whooshed up the stairway into the bedroom. A scream filled the air for no one to hear.

“YOU LEFT ME. COME BACK! BURY ME NEXT TO DONNA! COME BACK! I WILL WAIT AND YOU WILL PAY FOR LEAVING ME UNDONE!!” The maelstrom thrashed around the room, screaming its’ anguish. The room turned dark. Bill’s anger – a whirlwind, entered the walls, burst through, spread outward.

I woke with a start. It was warm, soft music was playing. I must have fallen asleep reading. The hour was late – time for bed. I bent down, picked up the book that had slid off my lap, stood upright. A prickling sensation started at the back of my head, went down my spine all the way into my toes. The warm room went cold. I turned, walked toward the bedroom – and stopped. The cabin appeared in my mind, door open, waiting…
