The house looks exactly like it did eighteen years ago—the brush grew thicker after Mama got sick—but the inside never changed. Now she’s gone and the house is mine and it’s October—Halloween is a week away and the memory seems like yesterday.

I was nine years old and Halloween was only seven days away. I looked into the water of the Mohawk River one day and it was black. The kind of black you see when there’s a bad storm overhead and the shadows of the clouds are reflected in the river. Only there was no storm overhead and the sky was blue. I closed my eyes then looked again but the water didn’t change—just stayed black.

“Mama, why is the water so dark?”

“Dark? What do you mean, dark? It just like it’s always been, Sammy.”

“No Mama, it’s black. Come and see.” I was standing in the doorway of our little brick house and Mama was stirring something on the stove.

“In a minute, Sammy. This is almost done then I’ll walk down with you. Is it warm outside?”

“Yes Mama.” The water had looked … swollen. Like something was there, just under the surface. I closed the door.

“Okay Sammy I’m finished—let’s go.”

“Maybe we should wait, Mama. I’m kind of tired.”

“Oh c’mon sweetie—I want to go and you have to keep me company. Besides, you’re too young to be tired.” Mama reached for my hand and smiled—that special smile that always made everything seem all right. “Are you thinking about the story Mr. Toby told you? It’s just pretend, Sammy. There’s nothing that comes out of the water—it’s all made up.” But I held on tight as we walked down the path.

“See, Sammy? There’s nothing wrong with the river. The water’s blue, not black.” And it was. It even felt normal again.

Mama and I lived a half mile away from the school bus stop—down a short road bordered by trees to the first bend and along a narrow dirt road that went past a row of homes facing the river. Our house sat at the end of another short road, out of sight of the water. On my way home I was usually greeted by Daisy, the little pug dog that lived on the first corner. She would run down the drive and launch herself straight into my arms. The first time she did it she knocked me down and sat on my chest, grinning. On this day I rounded the bend and looked for her but she was nowhere in sight. I went on home, disappointed.

“Mama, Daisy wasn’t there today. Do you think she’s sick?”

“I don’t know, Sammy. Maybe she’s sniffing around somewhere—I think I saw her by the river earlier. She likes to dig. She’s probably still there. Change your clothes, honey, and take out the trash. Then you can play until supper.”

“Sammy!” The voice belonged to my friend Eric, pedaling toward me on his bike.

“Watcha doin’? Hey, I found a cool cave in the woods by the river. C’mon—I’ll show ya. I tried to see inside but it’s too dark. Today I brought a flashlight.” He parked his bike and we took off on foot down the path. It hit me as soon as we rounded the bend—the water—inky, black. I stopped.

“Eric! Look at the river!”

“C’mon! I wanna show ya this cave.” He kept going, getting further ahead. I stood rooted, watching the water move—rippling, swelling, then smoothing again. Like something was there, trying to escape.

“Eric!” Panic made my feet fly.

“Look at this, Sammy.” He was poking around in the brush, shining the flashlight. My heart was thudding against my rib cage. Imagination, I thought. Nothing can live underwater except fish.

Eric and I soon discovered his cave was no more than a deep depression under a bank. We wandered around for a while, climbed an old tree with thick arms then walked back the way we came. When we reached the river, it was blue again—like the sky. Imagination.

“Sammy, what do you want to be for Halloween?” Mama asked. “Let’s do something different this year. I was thinking—how about going as a creature that came from the river? You can pretend to be Mr. Toby’s monster. We’ll do you up really scary—I’ll make you a neat costume. What do you say?” Mama’s costumes were the best—no one ever guessed who I was. There were about ten of us that went from door to door—kids from our small neighborhood and the nearby town of Fairlee. She was looking at me, waiting for my answer and I wanted to tell her no—I wanted to say that I didn’t want to go trick or treating this year. Not after dark. Not by the river. Maybe I was too old. I told her that.

“No, you’re not. Anyway, all your friends are going. Tell you what. I’ll surprise you, okay?” She smiled at me and busied herself at her favorite pastime—cooking.

The river seemed to turn blacker. I tried not to look at it but couldn’t seem to help myself. My young mind began to wander along impossible roads. Images of misshapen creatures emerging from the water and creeping through the grass kept my attention riveted on the waters’ edge. It was Wednesday. Halloween was Friday. Daisy still hadn’t shown up and Eric’s dog, Mutt, didn’t come home last night. Then the wind started.

“Sammy, be careful on the way to the bus stop this morning. It’s getting windy and things can drop on you from the trees.”

“What things, Mama?” Visions of bats as big as hawks popped into my head.

“You know, pine cones, or nuts—even limbs that have broken off but not yet fallen. Walk down the road, not under the trees.” She hugged me and pushed me out the door. “Scoot. You’ll miss your bus.” I stood on the steps and looked down our short road. Maybe I could cut through the woods behind the houses so I wouldn’t have to walk by the river. Mama raised the window.

“Sammy, is something wrong? You’d better get moving—the bus driver won’t wait for you.”

“Okay Mama, I’m going.” The notion of the woods was discarded—I’d probably get lost and Mama would skin me alive. A short while later I was running along the road by the river, keeping a watchful eye on the water. Just as I turned toward the road where the school bus stopped, something caught my eye. A form, like an outline. It seemed to be filled with liquid, undulating over the ground. What I heard was a splash, like the sound water makes when Mama empties a bucket out the door. What I saw was a face—Daisy’s face—only bigger. A lot bigger. I ran for the bus.

“Sammy,” said Mrs. Sanders, “you don’t seem to be with us today. Are you feeling all right? Would you like to go to the nurse’s office?”

"No Mrs. Sanders. I’m okay.” I buried my nose in my book without seeing the words. The day lasted forever, and was over too soon. Then the bus was stopping, the door was opening—and I had to walk by the river. I descended the steps and my cap became airborne, flying to the other side of the road. By the time I captured it the bus was gone and I stood alone. Tree limbs thrashed as the wind picked up its assault, growing more intense with each passing moment. It swirled around me and turned cold—I closed my eyes against its fury. Then, as if someone turned off a switch, it stopped—leaving me in silence surrounded by air so dead it reeked. The sound started a long way off—a thin wail. As it came closer it grew louder and louder—like a scream rushing through a tunnel, echoing off the sides—and it was right on top of me. I was crouched on the ground and I was crying when I realized everything was normal again—it was quiet. When I stood, my knees bumped together and I leaned against the trunk of a tree until my legs decided to support my weight. I forced myself to walk, concentrating on putting one foot in front of the other. The turn in the road beckoned. My feet seemed to grow heavier until I could hardly lift them. I reached the corner in front of the house where Daisy lived—nothing was in sight. The short road spread out in front of me, leaves tumbling along the ground pursued by the relentless wind. I stayed as close to the houses as possible. Halfway home. Then—something was behind me, getting louder, coming fast. Visions of dogs’ faces with long yellow fangs—huge heads floating on air, stretching toward me from behind made my spine prickle. I ran. I wanted to scream, but it came out a whisper.

“Hey Sammy! Wait up!” Eric’s voice jumped at me as his bike skidded to a halt. My legs turned to jelly and I sat hard, dropping my book bag beside me. He laughed. “Watcha doin’ down there? How come you’re not home yet? I beacha today. C’mon. Let’s do something. Sammy! Get up—ya gonna sit there all day?” He hopped back on his bike and took off toward my house. I scrambled to my feet and followed as fast as my rubber legs would allow.

“Did Mutt come home?” I asked as we walked toward the woods.

“Nah. Stupid dog probably got caught in a trap someplace. Pop says it’d serve him right—can’t never stay home. I kinda miss him, tho—was hopin’ he’d come back.” He shrugged.

“Eric, if I ask you something promise you won’t laugh?”

“What?”

“Did you ever see anything—you know—funny, by the water?”

“Like what?”

“Do you remember the story Mr. Toby told us?”

“You mean ‘bout animals 'n things disappearing and coming out of the water? D’ya think that happened to Mutt? Nah! That’s just dumb stuff. He was tryin’ to scare us. ‘Sides, the river looks the same.”

“I saw it turn black.”

“You did? How come I didn’t?”

“I don’t know Eric, but he said not everybody could see it. He said it only happens every nine years and a girl disappeared last time and the water turns dark and this is the ninth year … ”

“Ah—you’re just seein’ things. None of that other stuff is true. Stop bein’ a sissy, Sammy—forget it. Let’s go climb one of them big trees. Wouldncha like to make a tree house? Then we could see everything—nothin’ could ever sneak up on us. I found a good one in the woods next to the river. Some of the branches hang over—c’mon, I’ll show ya. You can climb right out over the water and look down.” He ran off ahead—he always did that. Once he made up his mind to do something, he was impatient to be doing it. I was forever trying to keep up with him.

“Ain’t it neat?” He was staring up at a gnarled old tree that looked like it could fall into the river at any moment. “C’mon. I climbed it yesterday and you can see under water when the sun shines right.” He caught a low branch and swung himself up, then turned and put his hand down to me. I realized I had avoided looking to see what color the water was. He scrambled upward and I ventured a small glance toward the wet expanse and was relieved to see that it looked blue.

“Eric, wait for me. What if you fall in?”

“I can swim—can’t you?”

“Well, I guess so—they taught us at camp last summer. But I never go swimming. Do you?”

“Nah. But ya never forget once it’s learned. Lookit down there. Didn’t I tell ya?” We grinned at our twins in the water. As I looked, a gust of wind tried to dislodge me from the branch I was wrapped around and my reflection disappeared as the water turned inky. A light spot seemed to appear where my face had been and a wavy shape began threading slowly through it. It swirled around and around, holding my gaze, hypnotic, pulling at me. I hugged the branch so tight my arms hurt.

“Eric!” I whispered. “Can you see what that is?”

“What? Jeez Sammy, there’s nothing there—just our faces. C’mon—let’s walk down the bank a ways and see if there’s even a better tree.” He began backing down the thick trunk—I was still frozen in place with my eyes closed.

“Whatsa matter Sammy—need help?” I half-opened my eyes and squinted at the water beneath me. It was blue again and the only thing in it was my reflection. I scurried down before it could change its mind. That night the wind sounded like it was trying to blow the house down.

“Mama, are you sure nothing can live underwater but fish?”

“Not for long, sweetie. Maybe snails, or plants, or things like that. Are you still thinking about that story?”

“No, I was just wondering. Did you get my costume done?”

“Almost. It’ll be finished when you get home from school. I have to stitch the bottom, then I’ll be through. It’s a surprise. You’re going to love it, I promise.”

Thursday morning I hurried along the narrow road bordering the river. The wind was still trying to steal my cap. As I rounded the bend toward the bus stop, there was a noise from the edge of the water. I was afraid to look, and afraid not to. Around the corner I went, turned without stopping and walked backwards up the road as I tried to identify the sound. Something ran between the trees. Something big, like Mr. Bailey’s mule. Maybe it got loose. I stopped moving. It came around the front of the tree. Not a mule—a dog. It was Mutt, or almost Mutt—colors seemed to ripple inside the water-filled shape. It was coming toward me on stilted legs, its lip curled. I couldn’t move. It was at the edge of the road when the horn blew. I jumped and yelled, then turned and ran. When I looked back from the safety of the bus, there was nothing there. Had there ever been?

Halloween morning the sky was gray. Mama was making cream of wheat and toast, my favorite breakfast.

“Morning Sammy. Are you excited about trick or treating? Oh—Tim and Margie are sick so there’ll just be you and Eric from here. Danny Carol’s mom is going to bring the rest of them over. The wind isn’t blowing quite as hard this morning, maybe by tonight it’ll stop. Last night it would’ve blown the masks right off your faces. Here—sit and eat your breakfast. You don’t want to miss your bus.” She smiled at me and walked out of the kitchen.

The only place the wind was blowing hard was by the water. I ran all the way to the bus stop, never looking anywhere except straight ahead. If anything was there, I didn’t want to see it. Maybe if I didn’t look, it wouldn’t look either. After school I ran all the way home from the bus stop. Mama was putting the ironing board away and I could see the colors of my costume draped over a chair. It was a mixture of yellows, rusts, grays and blacks covered with matted fur. Closer inspection revealed long pants and sleeves, with paws on the ends of all four. It also had a tail. It looked more like a wet dog than a monster from the water.

“Mama, what’s it supposed to be?”

“My own creation. We’ll call it a water dog. And it has a special face. Wait ‘til you see!” She went into her bedroom and came out carrying something.

“Here—close your eyes so I can slip it on. Then you can look in the mirror.” I stood quietly as she put the soft mask over my head.

“Okay. That came out great. You’ll fool them all. Go on and look.” I walked over to the mirror and Daisy’s pug face stared back at me. I yanked it off.

“Sammy? What’s the matter, hon? Don’t you like it? I know how much you like Daisy—I thought you’d be pleased.”

“Mama, Daisy never came back.” Her voice was soft when she answered.

“Oh Sammy—I’m sorry. I didn’t know.” She paused. “Maybe she wandered into the woods and a bigger animal got her. It happens around here—you know that. She was so little. Honey, you don’t have to wear the costume. We can dress you up in old clothes … ”

“No Mama, I like it—really. It just made me feel sort of funny for a minute. It’s a great costume.” I didn’t tell her about seeing Daisy, or Mutt—she’d say I was imagining things. Maybe I was. No one else saw them, or saw the river turn to ink, or whatever was in the water.

“Hi Eric. Gee, you look great.”

“Thanks. I made it myself.” He was wearing a pair of his dad’s coveralls and an old hat, his face painted with lipstick. Mama came into the room.

“Hello Eric. You guys ready to go? Mrs. Carol should be here soon—it’s almost dark. Why don’t you wait for them outside?” We sat on the steps listening to the wind in the tree branches. From somewhere in the woods came the sound of something heavy crashing to the ground. Eric grinned at me.

“This is a great night, huh Sammy? Spooky, like Halloween should be. Maybe there’ll be bats flyin’ around!” I didn’t tell him that spooky wasn’t exactly what I wanted, or that I didn’t want to do this at all. Eric wasn’t afraid of anything. We sat and watched the night creep up on us while we waited for Mrs. Carol. Then Mama came to the door.

“Boys—Mr. Carol just called. Mrs. Carol’s car stalled a couple of blocks from their house and won’t start. They can’t make it, so why don’t you guys go to a few houses around here? I can go with you, if you’d like.”

“No way! We’re not babies!” Mama laughed at Eric’s indignation.

“I kind of thought you’d feel that way. All right then, but don’t be gone too long or I promise I’ll come looking for you.” She handed us both sacks and went back into the house. Eric, with his usual speed, took off down the path. The wind stirred the darkness and I hustled to catch up with him.

“Listen!” Eric said. “Hear that? Sounds like a dog howlin’. Maybe it’s Mr. Toby’s ghost.” The sound carried on the wind, getting louder, then falling to a whisper. He glanced at me and shivered.

“C’mon, let’s go. It really is spooky! Wish Mutt was with us.” A vision of Mutt as big as a mule came into my mind as we headed to the first house.

“Trick or Treat!”

“Oh you boys look so cute,” Mrs. Justin gushed. Eric looked at me and rolled his eyes. She dropped a handful of candy into our bags, we thanked her and left.

“Let’s just do these houses and go back,” I said. “I don’t want to go by the river.”

“Why not?” said Eric. “That’s where we get our best stuff. Stop being a scaredy cat.”

“I am not!” A fleeting thought about leaving him alone was soon forgotten when I looked into the black night.

“Okay,” I said, listening to the thrashing trees, “but let’s go. Maybe that wasn’t a dog.” As if on cue, the mournful sound began again. Eric frowned, making me laugh. All the lipstick across his forehead made him look as if he were smiling upside down. We were both giggling as we turned the corner.

The apparition seemed to come out of nowhere. It was in the middle of the road.

“Jeez! Do you see it?” My voice came out like a croak.

“Whadya think I’m blind? ‘Course I see it. Sorta looks like Mutt, but it’s too big. What’ll we do?” We stood still, leaning against each other, when whatever it was lay down in the road and put its huge head on its paws.

“There’s another one! Looks like Daisy!” His voice was hushed. It walked over next to the Mutt thing and sat, watching us. Eric looked at them, then at me.

“That one looks like you,” he whispered. Only then did I remember what I was wearing. The Daisy thing was looking at me with its head cocked to one side.

“Eric, they’re all wet, like they came out of the water.” They watched us. We were afraid to look away.

“We could back up real slow. Maybe they’ll stay there and we can get to your house. Try it.” One foot, then another, and another … the Mutt thing stood. We stopped, clutching each other. I must have made a noise—Eric jabbed me. We were shaking so hard our teeth chattered.

“We gotta run,” I said. “We can’t stay here.”

“They’ll get us. Look how big they are. I’m sorry I called ya a scaredy cat.” His voice was thick.

“Maybe they’re not real. C’mon, just turn and run toward my house. Don’t stop and don’t look back. Run as fast as you can.” The Daisy thing sat and the Mutt thing looked at it.

“Wait! Maybe it’ll lay down again. Then we run. Okay?”

“Okay,” he said, his tone quavery. We stood there while time stopped. Finally the Mutt thing lowered itself to the ground. My hand tightened on Eric’s arm. The Daisy thing stood, sniffed the air toward us, then lay in the road.

“Now!” I said, and ran. I could hear Eric’s footsteps thudding right behind me. Then all I could hear was my own blood pounding in my ears to the beat of my heart. I never once looked back.

All that happened eighteen years ago. I don’t remember the following months. Mama left the river and took me to her sister’s. They said it was a long time before I spoke again. The next summer trees were cleared and a new road was built on the other side of the houses by the river. The old dirt road disappeared beneath the weeds—a place where strange shadows sometimes appeared. Shadows, like wet animals—and once, a young boy. Mama went back to live in the little brick house when I turned sixteen—I stayed with my aunt. I never go out after dark during Halloween weeks.

My friend Eric? No one knows. He disappeared that long ago night—without a trace.
