“What's so important that I have to miss my daily dose of Kiwi drama?!” came the voice as he strode into the underground bunker-like room.

Weekdays at 7pm – straight after the news was time for Shortland Street, NZ's longest running TV 'soap'. John Key didn't actually watch it, but he thought it was a suitable joking jibe for these guys who were taking up his evening time. As Prime Minister of New Zealand, he didn't get much free time, so reminding people who called 'special' meetings at odd hours was fair game he thought.

“Sorry Sir” answered the older of the two men waiting for him in the small room, “You'll soon see the circumstances warrant this degree of disruption and security.”

Jerry Mateparae was a veteran of politics and a man at the top of his game. Prior to his very recent appointment as head of the Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB), NZ's communications monitoring operation a few months ago, he had come through a long chain of ever increasingly senior and more 'political' appointments in the NZ Army. A long way from his roots as an enlisted private in the Army's Regular Forces, Jerry had subsequently passed through Officer training, and the elite Special Air Services, before climbing through the various 'chain of command' roles to become Chief of the Army, and then Chief of Defense Force. And then the Prime Minister had announced his appointment to the GCSB Director role, a post he had taken up at the start of February, only to have himself announced as the Governor General elect one month later!

Jerry was a solder's soldier – and in the couple of month at GCSB he had had quite an effect on the way things were done. He also had an ingrained sense of duty and hierarchy, and as his current boss came fully into the room, he stood and indicated the chair in front of him, then motioned to the other occupant of the room to get the door. The younger man sealed the door and came back to the table, seating himself beside his boss and facing the PM.

Apart from the three men, their chairs and the table, the room was empty, bar the slim red-jacketed manila folder on the table between them.

John looked at the third man and Jerry made the introductions.

“Sir, this is one of my Special Projects Managers. He reports directly to me. You can call him Fin. His surname is need to know.”

“Even for me?!” the PM asked incredulously.

“Yes Sir, even for you.” Jerry agreed quietly, trying to avoid any tone of defiance in his voice.

It wasn't strictly necessary, but Jerry had learned a long time back in his Army life that loyalty will follow more easily when reflected by the boss. But also, he felt that in these more 'political' roles, he should have some 'rules of engagement' for when his Department was dealing externally, and this was one of his rules – more to prove a point than for any need for secrecy to keep his people safe. Although in the case of the Special Projects Operatives, the need was greater than for most people. Special Projects blurred the line between traditional GCSB roles and other departments' roles.

Fin reached out his hand to shake with John Key and said “It's a pleasure to meet you Sir.”

John returned the handshake and got straight down to business. “What have you got for me then?” he asked as he slid the folder towards himself but not yet opening it until the unwritten protocol of this type of briefing allowed.

This type of briefing was very unusual. The underground SCIF (Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility) meeting room was only ever used for those meetings that never happened. The kind of meeting that doesn't show up on your meeting schedule program and that you only know is going to happen when you see that yellow chalk “X” on the right-side rear tyre of your car. The unnatural looking “X” that has crossbars on the ends of the cross members on only the 2 bars of the rearward facing chevron. In a car park that is secure-access only underneath the government buildings of New Zealand’s capital city.

This was actually the first time Jerry had used this mechanism, and the PM himself had only had one previous occasion with the previous GCSB Director in his two and a half years in office, and they both knew that it was only resorted to for serious matters that were not for public consumption until some careful deliberation had taken place. John obviously respected the technical and political skills his GCSB boss demonstrated, and knew he would not have called the meeting lightly.

Jerry drew a deep breath and started.

“Well Sir, you will recall the intel our office has provided you in regards to the various 2012 Doomsday Cults? Despite the death of Osama the other day, we now have very solid leads on a number of these that confirm our earlier belief that several of the more serious cults are organising themselves together, and aligning themselves with certain terrorist organisations to deliver a global Doomsday campaign. And if that isn't enough, I have to report that now we are certain there is a NZ-based group of individuals who are also making a global extermination plot.”

“What!” Mr Key exploded incredulously “New Zealand terrorists?!”

“Well Sir,” Jerry responded carefully, “I wouldn't go so far as to label them 'terrorists', as their goal is not terror. Their goal is simply the extermination of everyone on the planet outside of New Zealand.”

“And how is that not terrorism?” Key asked tapping the table with his thumb, an aggrieved look on his face.

“Of course, technically it is terrorism, but these people are rank amateurs and they don't have the same kind of 'cause' that terrorists usually have.”

“So if they're amateurs, we don't have to worry about them. Pick them up, lock them up quietly, problem solved?” John retorted.

“Actually Sir,” Jerry almost squirmed in his seat, “We could do that, but we think that this could be our solution to the bigger problem of the real terrorists. Fin, why don't you tell the Prime Minister your plan.”

Fin noticed the “your plan” emphasis momentarily analysing that this was both an out for his boss if it went wrong or wasn't liked, and praise if it was good. However, in their line of work, he was used to such double-edged swords of words almost as much as he was used to more substantive, sharp, shiny and less metaphysical swords and was happy to let it pass uncommented.

“Sir, actually these un-terrorists are old school friends of mine. It seems they are putting in place a plan to develop stocks of a virulently lethal biological agent, and deploy this agent globally in a manner that is likely to kill all humans across the world, leaving only our country unaffected. They are doing this because they have come to believe the same information that we now know to be true – that there are cults and terrorists intent on destroying the world, and they plan on launching a pre-emptive strike to beat them at their own game and be the last ones standing.”

The PM, for a complete change, was lost for words. It was a tall order to believe that some ordinary Kiwi citizens were planning such an audacious event.

Finally, he got himself back under control.

“How on earth do they expect to pull that off by themselves?” he demanded “Is that even possible?”

“Unfortunately it is.” Fin confirmed.

He reached over and opened the manila folder spreading out the papers inside for the PM's attention. On one was a fact sheet with a Bio-Haz warning logo on the top right hand corner. It was headed up “The Anthrola Virus” and featured an 'Executive Summary' style description of the lethal effects of the virus before going on to more detail describing the origins, the mechanism by which it worked, the symptoms and a list of the facilities that were known to have samples of the virus. A second sheet featured a report detailing what they knew about the plot – called Operation Scythe, and a third sheet with photo's and descriptions of the plotters – Josh, Tom, Liz and Linda. It was an extremely condensed version of the information they had back at GCSB HQ, but it contained all that the PM needed to know.

John had already read the executive summary of the Anthrola virus and picked up and started to read the report on Scythe. Fin and Douglas let him read, waiting patiently in silence. The report was thorough and concise, carefully crafted to be the best way to deliver the news. It detailed how the group was sourcing funding, the activities of Josh in his Bio-Haz Services business, and the fact that Tom and Linda had recently made an order for two million air-freshener cans and spray units broken into smaller, staged, delivery lots. This last recent item cemented the belief that they were committing to taking the project off the drawing board and into reality and was the reason Fin had now stopped delaying in bringing their activities to his superiors attention.

The PM put down the report, his mind reeling. He picked it up again, but he looked at it with eyes that weren't receiving. “Two million cans!!” he was thinking.

“My god!” he finally breathed into the silence.

“Yes Sir.” replied Fin quietly and tastefully. “Perhaps you can see why we think they might be able to succeed?”

John quietly nodded. His mind still struggling with the enormity and sheer audaciousness of the plan.

Fin continued, “and therefore, if they can succeed, then they neutralise the threat from the real terrorists for us.”

John suddenly focused his eyes on Fin, slamming his palm down on the table to emphasise his point “By wiping out the entire world’s population!” he reminded them.

“Yes Sir.” agreed Jerry taking over from Fin. “But Sir, consider this … ” he started ticking off the points with his fingers “One) the threat from the cults linking with the terrorists is very real. Two) stopping them any conventional way is beyond our capability. Three) enlisting other countries agencies is also not going to get them all without violating every law there ever was, and Four) if we go after one group, it is likely to cause the others to trigger their plans early with catastrophic results. As unpalatable a thought as it might be, the tactical solution that this Project Scythe provides is one of the best options.”

“At the expense of billions of innocent lives.” Key repeated.

“Yes Sir.” repeated Jerry. “However thousands of innocent lives are lost every day, and if you take a long hard look at the world at the moment, what have you got – you've got a mess really. You've got religious wars where brother is fighting brother, you've got turf wars where the people fighting now have really no idea of the original reason – it's just entrenched in their upbringing from thousands of years ago, and you've got global warming and one man-made disaster after another. Almost everywhere outside of New Zealand you have an unsustainable ecological pressure of a multitude of people on limited resources which are fast being ripped out of the ground and largely squandered. The world is currently fighting over land and oil. Pretty soon they will be fighting over fresh water, and soon after that they'll be fighting over clean air. We've always said how lucky we are to live here in our own little un-spoilt paradise – don't you think it's time we made the hard decision to secure paradise before we get dragged into the mire the rest of the world is getting itself into now?”

John Key was a good honest Kiwi bloke at heart. But he was also a pragmatist and a good leader. He could make hard decisions, and he recognised the logic in what they were suggesting - but the humanist in him was not going to give up without a fight. And even if this was the most clear cut logic in the world, there was a whole lot more to consider than what had been spoken so far.

“This needs more thought.” he finally pronounced. “I hear what you're saying Jerry, but I need a team set up to debate this. Naturally it needs to be a very tiny team of select individuals with security clearances that are off the chart. This stays with us until then. Clearance will be name only.”

They nodded agreement.

“In the meantime we let Scythe run free Sir?” Jerry asked for official confirmation.

“Yes” answered Key. “But you better make sure you know exactly what they're doing at all times, without showing your hand.”

“Of course Sir.” they both answered together.

“My God!” he muttered again half to himself as picked up the folder and walked out of the SCIF room.

Fin and Jerry sat for a few seconds and then Fin looked at his boss “Well,” he said “he bought it.”

Jerry nodded “So far.” he said wryly “You'd better be damn sure about them though Fin. The words 'there's a lot riding on this one' do not even come close to describing this mess.” He stood up to leave.

“I know my friends” Fin replied steadfast in his belief as he too rose from his chair. “They won't let us down. Especially if we give them a wee quiet nudge from the shadows along the way as and if required.”

And with nothing more to say, they left the SCIF shutting the door behind them and sliding the plaque on the front from “Busy” to “Free”.



Environs of Maiko National Park, DR Congo, 04 May 2011 (Wednesday) 1500 Zulu

Deep in the heart of the African continent, above the steamy rainforest that swarmed in the vicinity of the waters that fed the second largest river on Earth, a green/grey gnat-machine batted through the turgid air as it headed towards home base.

A solid, barrel-chested man sat clipped in to the canvas seat looking pensively out the pinned-back door of the Huey as it's twin blades smacked their endlessly rotating path through the heat of the African afternoon. He never tired of the view from the chopper and even though others would see a boring endless canopy of green, he read the lay of the land, the loops and rapids of the river systems, saw the interplay between land & water, tree and sky and constantly probed for and analysed the human presences and potential targets for human presence. He especially looked for signs of hidden humans and for potential places where he could have hiding places.

LeBlanc was a man in need of plenty of hiding places. His business was not of the sort that endeared itself to law enforcement. He was, in fact, a terrorist.

Or more correctly, he was “a fixer”, or an enabler of terrorists. He recruited where necessary, but usually it was a case of linking one group with another for a common purpose and finding them equipment, funding and training. Usually the cause showed itself to them, sometimes he would 'nudge' them in a direction that suited his purposes – mostly other customers purposes. A modern business person would probably describe him as a freelance consultant or business mentor while other, more simple persons might call him a gun-runner.

Right at the moment he was coming back from a visit to Somalia where he had been assessing and assisting another batch of Somali pirates as potential 'grist for the mill' of one of his customers' cause. The pirates had recently completed a successful oil tanker hijack and had money to burn on new equipment. LeBlanc was quietly grooming them to step away from the pirate cause and up into the more elite circles of the militia and terrorism. There were several groups he worked with who would pay a worthwhile 'recruiting fee' for his trouble.

It might seem odd for a terrorist enabler to have such a mighty machine as the indomitable Bell UH-1 Iroquois helicopter at his disposal, but this was a serious business, and he was well funded. He even had a Bell AH-1 Cobra attack gunship helicopter, but that was a bit more conspicuous! The Iroquois was also more useful for cargo carrying and troop deployment as well, hence it's more frequent use.

The home base he was headed for was more of a training camp than a home. Hidden deep in the jungle that surrounded the headwater tributaries of the mighty Congo river, it was remote, and he hoped, impossible to find unassisted.

From the town of Waine-Rukula, if you followed the twists and turns of the Maiko River deep into the Parc National de la Maiko closer to the Uganda and Rwanda borders, and then if you picked the correct un-named side river that fed into the Maiko and followed that upstream, you might find a place where for a section of about 100 metres, the tree canopies reached together from either bank hiding the river from any aerial observation, but leaving enough room for a carefully controlled helicopter to fly underneath and hover at the edge of a short jetty that sprouted suddenly, as if from nowhere, out of the left-hand bank. The jetty came out just far enough to keep the Huey rotor blades safely clear of the tree branches, but it took an accomplished pilot to perform the feat.

If you did find this spot however, and you were an unscheduled visitor, you would not live to tell anyone of the jetty in the middle of nowhere, for the trees on the bank featured several carefully concealed observation hides that were always manned with tough individuals who were competent with the long barreled rifles they carried.

When it came to weaponry in Africa, most people used the ubiquitous AK-47. Its simple design and ruggedness, coupled with its commonness, made it the perfect weapon for the large continent. However, the AK-47 was limited in longer range accurate shooting stakes so these guards had the equally rugged L1A1 SLR with its longer barrel and 11mm longer cartridge than the AK's, contributing to a superior range and stopping power. With their wooden 'furniture', and solid metal construction, they were big, heavy and ugly in a functional way that only a soldier could love. These men had depended on them for their lives.

As LeBlanc's chopper approached the spot, the guards heard it before they could see it. There was no need for the radio identification that was available since the chopper was distinctive and expected. They tried to limit radio use just in case there were any eavesdroppers out there trying to find them – LeBlanc hadn't survived as long as he had in this business without being careful, and radio silence was a standard, common-sense precaution.

It didn't mean they couldn't use the much shorter range personal communication radios that the guards used to ensure the security of the camp. They had a common frequency radio network which all the guards were plugged into at all times via earplug and voice activated throat mike. However any 'RF snooper' would have to be right in the immediate vicinity of the camp to detect the signal. Careful choice of frequency and power, and achieving the required coverage by a network of carefully sited repeaters, meant they broadcast all they liked and the foliage would block the signals from being intercepted above, while still keeping them all in touch within the different parts of the camp.

As the chopper carefully beat its way up the side river, low over the water, the designated 'downstream' guard radioed in its arrival. It hardly hovered for more than a couple of seconds over the jetty edge before LeBlanc had hopped down onto its decking. He strode away without looking back as it ponderously continued its course upstream, around the bend and continued for a few more bends before breaking out of the river bed and making a beeline for its home.

The helicopters 'lived' in a different place to the rest of the camp. A small natural clearing about two kilometres away featured a carefully camouflaged hangar for the two birds well back under the trees. When the choppers were coming and going, a movable screen of artificial shrubs was used to shield the under-tree entrance from any prying eyes as the choppers were pushed, on their clip-on wheel units, into concealment as soon as they had landed.

The hangar was connected to the base by a path that wound under the densest parts of the jungle cover, wide enough for a small truck, but seldom used by any vehicle to further minimise the chances of detection. The comm-link network extended out here too, with directional repeaters (rather than omni-directional repeaters) spaced strategically along the path.

LeBlanc did not consider himself paranoid about security - just highly conscious and not given to taking unnecessary risks. While he had worked very hard to remain anonymous and on the sidelines of the terrorist world stage, he knew his little enterprise would be high on the 'wanted' list for any law enforcement or military operations, for without their sponsor or source of military supplies, the terror elements would not exist for long. Also, he knew it was just as likely that he might be found 'accidentally' while such an organisation was searching for some other party.

As LeBlanc strode along the jetty he glanced up into the trees to check the guards were doing their jobs. Despite the fact that he was a distinctive man and their boss, he was satisfied to see that the designated 'jetty' guard had his rifle trained on him all the way from when he was in the chopper, and that the 'downstream' and 'upstream' guards paid him only scant attention at the edge of their interlocking visual sweeps through their patrol areas.

It had only been necessary to make an example of one guard soon after they had set up here, to teach them all how seriously he took security. Ever since that careless, lax, man had been steadily skinned alive over the span of several days, the other guards had learnt the lesson very well. His marked, but un-named grave was the first thing you saw when you exited the compound main gate as a constant reminder of the unflagging rules.

At the edge of the jetty he approached the camouflaged 'bank' guard post and gave the codeword. The guard nodded and handed him one of the comm-link units. Only when LeBlanc started putting on the comm-link did the 'jetty' guard relax his cover and return to his scan of the jetty and far river bank.

LeBlanc strode purposely along the path to the main compound. He was pleased with the set-up and the discipline the men were showing. It had only been possible for him to see them because he knew where to look, otherwise, the river bank had seemed deserted and the jetty totally out of place.

As he completed his short walk towards the compound, he radioed in as he reached the checkpoint that faced the gate “Alpha One at Skin Point”. Again, he was satisfied to see the inner perimeter guards had their rifles on him up until he made the call. Making the grave marker the checkpoint was he thought a decidedly constant reminder!

He waited a few seconds until he heard “Doormat clear” in his earpiece, and then he strode forward the last 5 metres to the door in the compound wall, stepping through as it opened for him. He watched the process as one of the inner guards was covering him with his SLR while the door opener secured the door, reactivated the mines outside and made the call over his radio “Doormat live”. Once the door was shut and the mines reactivated, the inner guard relaxed his weapon and gave a nod of recognition to LeBlanc.

Continuous repetition of the security process had been drummed into them all. Trust no-one until you know for sure who they are and that the area is secure. The marked grave regularly taunted them to this need.

Once inside, LeBlanc could see more easily the nature of the compound he had designed and built himself. As he always did when returning from anything more than a same-day trip, he scrutenised and surveyed it as if for the first time, probing the features and looking for weaknesses that he might have missed.

Starting at the perimeter, the outer fence was a circle, unbroken except at the three entrance/exits which were positioned in the nature of a “Y” so that there two other exits if one was targetted, and there wasn't a straight line of sight from either of the entrances to any of the others. He'd chosen the circle shape rather than a square, rectangle or other shape since it offered no edges or side-by-side bulges by which someone could gain leverage against to climb up the wall.

To further prevent climbing, the perimeter fence itself was made from vertical strips of stainless steel mounted with their thin edges facing in/out to maximise the visibility through the structure so they could see and fire through it much more readily. The upright strips were set at their base into concrete that was buried under half a metre of earth, and held together near the top by welding to another strip of steel. There were no bolts or rough surfaces to gain a climbing purchase on.

To prevent anyone trying to grapple hook this horizontal joiner, the uprights continued for about another foot above this, and then featured a 'crown' of sturdy but thin and razor sharp metal that would cut through any rope passed over it, plus the electrical signal passing through it, would be distorted signaling a disturbance to the control room.

Outside the fence for a distance of 5 metres, a densely populated mine field of “Bouncing Betty” S-mines ran all around the fence. At the 3 entrances, the S-mines were replaced with Claymores angled on each side of the clear path. The Claymores were triggered by an infrared virtual tripwire which was armed and disarmed from the controls at each gate.

5 metres inside the fence, a replica steel upright fence was positioned, and again, the space in between was filled with mines. At the gates, the guard post was an air-lock style box which extended 4 metres each side of the path and was delineated by thick bullet-proof Lexan panels – including the roof to shield from rain and grenades or other projectiles alike. The side panels featured thin horizontal slots for the rifle barrels but otherwise provided a safe, dry haven for the guards with unlimited visibility. The outer door was a replica of the vertical bars fence, while the inner door was bullet-proof Lexan in a solid metal frame.

Inside the inner fence, the jungle was totally cleared out except for some of the larger trees that towered up high above the compound. These trees provided a natural, spreading canopy to hide the base from the air. By careful selection using the helicopter as a spotter, LeBlanc had achieved almost a complete canopy cover up top, while having an almost totally clear circular space below. There were a couple of small natural openings in the foliage but the spots were known and nothing incriminating took place in those spots other than the occasional person walking through it.

Closer in towards the centre of the circle were the bases buildings. The majority of them were underground with the entranceway built up against the tree that provided its camouflage. There were a handful of small buildings however, built around a tree with the roof of each carefully constructed to present an irregular shape from above and careful tree-like camouflage was employed as well to hide each structure. The insides of the walls and roof were also well insulated to minimise the chances of heat signatures being detected.

The underground entranceways were like concrete outhouses, festooned with shrub-like appendages to make them blend in with the tree's surrounds. They were open-fronted since they led steeply down-stairs immediately, and dealing with a door from the downstairs side was too difficult. Instead, as the steps reached the bottom, a pair of airlock style doors were encountered, before opening into the underground chamber. The underground chambers were down quite deep – so as not to disturb unduly the roots of the trees, and also to provide a shield for bunker-style safety.

The underground building had been dug as one huge area but had been finished as three separated spaces over two levels. One space was the Base HQ and staff quarters, the second was the mess hall, recreational area and guest quarters, and the third area one level down featured the training rooms, over-flow accommodation, and a 25 yard rifle & handgun range. The three sections were sealed off completely from each other with thick reinforced concrete walls. There were separate entrances to each area, and the only interconnect between them was one case where the overflow accommodation near the training rooms could be accessed from the guest quarters, however each entranceway featured a heavy security door that was opened via a programmable electronic prox (proximity) device and LeBlanc could control who had access and who didn't. The electronic locks were linked to the Control Room computers and each activation was logged with the user code recorded. Each permanent staff member had a small personal issue prox device (usually on a strap around their neck), while guests would be issued a larger, more fragile, card style device – either personally or via the squad or troop leader depending on status and trustworthiness.

Each underground area featured one main entranceway with the electronic air-lock doors, and two emergency egress points. The latter consisted of a solid concrete tube with a vertical ladder bolted to the inside with a hatch at the bottom and another at the top that opened only from within – again the electronic swipe card would unlock the hatch. These hatches were disguised from above as large shrubs or tree stumps.

Clustered around the perimeter not too far away from the entranceway to the underground rifle range, were the few above-ground buildings. While in reasonable proximity to each other, they were all separated by a distance of at least ten metres, and in addition to the camouflage elements, they featured thick blast-proof Lexan wall paneling’s. These were storage rooms for the explosives and ammunition.

Predominantly on the opposite side of the compound from the collection of ammo huts, but scattered around the compound in aerially concealed locations, an obstacle course could be seen, featuring a climbing platform with a skinny wall up the side of one of the trees, a scramble net, a barbwire covered mud crawl, a low obstacle wall (solid), a high obstacle wall with spaced slats, and a section of tire-run leading to a choice of rope or tree climb and high rope. The various training elements could be incorporated into the morning or afternoon PT runs with or without kit in endless combinations. After a few days of in-compound training of this sort, they would normally head them outside the compound and tackle the natural jungle environment on extended forced marches or jungle runs.

LeBlanc's practiced eye swept the area mentally checking off each item correctly in its place with no change to the tree canopy cover. Satisfied, he headed to the main HQ entranceway.

Just before he ducked in and down the stairs, he checked in on his comm-link.

“Alpha One at HQ” he said, then flicked the switch that deactivated the throat mic, pulled out his prox pendant from under his shirt, swiped and opened the first door. As he made his way through the empty 'air-lock' to the second door, he noticed that one of the control room staff was watching him through the Lexan panels, with one hand on a pistol on the desktop beside him. LeBlanc nodded to him as he proxed the door open and stepped inside the building proper. As the guard verified his identity matched the prox card details and photo that came up on his screen, he took his hand off the pistol and returned to scanning his instruments.

The control room did not open directly to the interior space accessed through the 'airlock' entrance, however the side wall observed this area through several layers of the clear blast-proof Lexan The compound had not been cheap to build, but the security it offered him was second to none and the cost had already been repaid from the training business he brought into it.

When they brought trainees in, they were more often than not brought a long way up the river well past the side stream. The boat would then ground on one end of a random 'island' and transfer them to the chopper which would land on the other end. Once in the chopper they would be blindfolded before taking off in an unrelated direction, then going through a series of random and bewildering turns and motions to confuse their sense of direction, before carrying on in the proper direction to intercept the side stream and the jetty. Once hovering over the jetty, their blindfolds would be removed and they would be escorted through the guards (who made themselves very visible on these occasions), to the guest quarters mess hall where they would be processed for identification and advised in no uncertain terms of the rules. Unless they were favoured guests (which they almost never were), their weapons would be taken from them before getting on the chopper and stored in the out-buildings until needed for training. The guests were very conscious that they had no weapons while the compound staff had plenty. Each staff member usually wore at least one knife and a pistol strapped to their waist or body webbing. Additionally when they exited the underground buildings, they would usually also collect either an AK-47 or an SLR depending on their task.

LeBlanc went past the control room and briefly ducked into the kitchenette to grab a beer from the fridge. While the main mess hall was in the next-door guest quarters section, they had a separate means of having drinks and snacks in this area so they could be self sufficient if necessary and not have to go the long way round to grab a coffee.

They were just coming out of the dry season and the heat was oppressively muggy. He pressed the cold bottle against his forehead and rolled it all over as he headed further along the corridor to his private office adjacent to the map room. Proxing the lock, he opened the door, stepped in and settled in to his chair, then he took a refreshing swig of the cool liquid, savouring it in his mouth for a few seconds before swallowing and poking his computer into life.

He was expecting an e-mail.



Berbera, Somalia, 21 June 2011 (Tuesday) 1500 Zulu

Hunkered down on the flat roof, Fin was feeling the heat. Even though he was both hiding from his quarry and sheltering from the sun, he was exposed to the reflections off the roof of the afternoon sun.

He slowly and carefully lifted the floppy-brimmed hat and wiped the sweat from his brow while still keeping his eyes on the building across the road and the approach to it. Placing his eye back to the high power, stubby, telescope on its tripod, he again scanned the buildings inner courtyard, focusing once more on the group lounging around inside in the shade of a patched and faded, stripy awning.

Fin was pirate watching.

Not, the 'shivver-me-timbers-parrot-on-the-shoulder' type of pirate, but perhaps an even deadlier type – the modern Somali oil tanker hi-jacking type. Armed with AK-47's, RPG's, sat-phones and jet-ski's, these guys had no compunction in killing and blowing up an oil tanker causing a massive ecological disaster if they didn't get their way – which was to receive large sums of millions of dollars. While these guys were a security concern in their own right, from Fin's intelligence intercepts, they had reason to believe this particular batch of pirates was trying to step up into the big league and work with some of the really nasty players – even the AQIM if they could build up the “cred” to be worthy. They had not been able to pinpoint the real big 'bad-boys' so far and were hoping to access them through these 'little fish'.

AQIM (al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb) is a North Africa region-wide jihadist alliance. It is primarily made up of Algeria's jihadist groups but the intelligence Fin's team had been gathering over the last year, and which had been accelerating over the last few months, indicated that AQIM was extending their co-ordination further afield and linking up with other Al-Qaeda-linked terrorist cells elsewhere in the region - including many Somali groups. Some of these groups had received training in terrorist hideouts in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

Somalia was a perfect spot for this, as it was strategically located along one side and at the mouth of the Gulf of Aden through which a lot of the worlds key cargo ships flowed. Directly across the Gulf, was Yemen at the bottom of the Middle East, and specifically across from Berbera, where Fin was today, was the port of Aden, where a terrorist bomb killed 17 aboard the USS Cole a decade earlier. From their base across the road, the pirates could zoom out in their jet-ski's right into the busy sea-lanes for their pick of the ships, or sneak across into Yemen, (itself a hot-bed of unrest), then either over-land through Saudi Arabia to Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan & Pakistan, or along the coast to access these Al-Qaeda “home bases”.

Fin's current role in Special Projects for the GCSB didn't normally involve field work of this sort, but due to the extreme sensitivity of this project, they couldn't use a lot of their normal resources and had to do a lot of it themselves. On this mission, even though they had intercepted reasonably specific intel about the group being about to receive Al-Qaeda sponsored training, it was still only a slim lead among many options, and so Fin had only himself, and one local 'affiliated agent' to call on for assistance.

The French DGSE trained local was acting the part of a fisherman working on the hull of his friends upturned boat in the place next to the pirates'. Ade (pronounced Ah-deh), was a deep cover local and lived in the parts so he was able to be so open and close without raising any suspicion, however Fin had to be much more circumspect and had to avoid any overt contact with him lest he blow his cover. Fin was able to relay progress reports and meeting details via text messages to his cell phone which would vibrate rather than ring at his call. Thus at a little after 3 o'clock, when Fin saw a battered land rover approaching, he was pre-warned and hard at work with his sander – but ready with the magnetic tracker button for any opportunity to slip it in or onto the vehicle should it prove to be the awaited contact.

As the land rover approached down the street, it started slowing as if the driver was searching for something, and then stopped outside the building. A young African man in his mid to late 20's got out from the driver’s seat and knocked on the door to the courtyard gate of the pirates building. As he did so, Ade hoisted a crate of nets up on his shoulder, and started walking down the road on a course that would take him alongside the land rover. As the driver was ushered in through the door of the pirate compound, Ade seemed to accidentally drop a float out of the crate beside the outside rear wheel of the jeep, and as he bent and put down his crate to pick it up, he deftly attached the magnetic tracker up underneath the side of the land rover before scooping up the float, and continuing on his way.

Meanwhile up on the roof, Fin was busy with the long lens digital SLR camera. He'd already taken some shots of the land rover as it parked outside the pirate lair, and of the young man getting out and meeting the pirates who'd opened the door and led him inside. He'd made sure to zoom in close on the number plate, and for chain-of-evidence reasons, had also several shots of Ade placing the GPS tracking device. Now he waited for the young man to come back out to get some front-on shots while watching, and photographing, the activity in the compound.

Ade meanwhile had gone on and disappeared – back to pick up his own 4WD and drive it around to the back of the building to pick up Fin if needed. In the “olden days”, with only the two of them, he would have had to hang around to try and follow the land rover which would have an increased risk of being spotted. Even the older tracking devices had an element of risk as they relied on sending a radio signal which meant you still had to follow with a radio receiver to track where they went. The new tracker technology, however, made things a lot easier and safer, by recording the precise GPS co-ordinates at time-stamped intervals and squirted the info up to a satellite network for downloading anywhere in the world. The device was 'smart' though and adjusted the frequency of the updates depending on the rate of motion – if it detected rapid motion it would update more frequently, if stationary, less frequently. Fin's team back in NZ would be accessing the info at the same time as Fin himself in Somalia. By overlaying the tracker positions on an accurate map, they could follow the vehicle and see where it stopped and check them out later without appearing to be connected to following the vehicle.

It seemed as if this was indeed the contact they'd been expecting. The young man had been ushered over to the group of pirates under the awning. He'd handed over a slightly grubby A4-sized envelope and then had been led back to the door. As he and the land rover was leaving, the pirates started breaking up into ones and twos, heading off to different parts of the building and courtyard. The ones around the courtyard started getting boxes of gear out of storage sheds and loading them on the tray of a beat-up looking utility vehicle. They were obviously preparing to go somewhere.

Fin briefly considered his options. He needed to know where they were going that was for sure. If it was to the training camp, it would no doubt lead to being able to track other groups that also came through the camp in the future, and with a lot of luck they could lead directly to the Al Qaeda network. Tracking the messenger might not lead anywhere, especially if he was just a simple messenger. He couldn't risk trailing them when they were either collected or went to their meet point, as the chance of being spotted and blowing their cover was too high.

He sent a text to Ade “Not moving. Need tracker on cargo - wood crate - green rpg.”

Ade knew it would be difficult. He would need to prepare the device and then wait for an opportunity to place it without arousing suspicions. This would be next to impossible inside the compound so they'd have to wait until they came out.

He returned to his boat repairs and in between his various comings and goings between boat and house, prepped his bug. The particular bug had the same functionality as the magnetic one he'd popped on the land rover, but was in the form of something between a nail and a drawing pin. The sharpened shaft was both housing for the electronics, antenna, and secure mounting aid. He had fitted it into a pen-sized pneumatic nail-gun-like launching device that would mean he could drive it into the wooden box by simply touching it to the side and clicking the button. The compressed air would be released propelling the 'nail' biting into the wood. In this manner it was similar to a nail-gun but a lot quieter than those cartridge powered construction tools. Now, with the loaded launcher in his pocket, he just had to wait for his opportunity to access the cargo.

Meanwhile, Fin was alternating his watch between the compound, the road, and the laptop with the tracker overlaid on the grid-map of the area he had loaded up. Everything looked normal and the land rover appeared to be heading out the other side of town without making any other stops. In the pirates compound, they appeared to be finished with their preparations. There was a small stack of wooden crates on the Ute as well as a collection of kitbags and backpacks. Fin thought that the crates looked like they could hold weapons – two of them were the RPG crates he'd advised Ade about, three seemed to be holding long rifles and assault rifles, and he'd seen the larger box filled as a catch-all container with a selection of military paraphernalia such as radios, maps, compass', GPS devices and the like.

One of the crates would be a good location for the bug, and Fin had already indicated to Ade that the RPG box might be the best. He knew that Ade, with plenty of warning, could paint the tracker heads green as camouflage to hide it from view on the chosen crate, all he needed was a couple of seconds of access to the back of the Ute they were loaded in.

Checking the laptop again, he noticed the land rover had finally come to a stop. It was out at the airport but parked away from the main terminal area in an area of no obvious function. Curious, Fin flicked up a file, entering his password to de-crypt it as he did so, and checked the satellite staging times listed inside. It would be another three quarters of an hour before the nearest satellite would swing past in it's never-ending arc.

He checked the compound again - the pirates seemed to have finished their burst of activity and were back to the waiting game that all military men get so well used to. The Ute was loaded and abandoned, and the men were starting to bring out the makings of a meal. It looked like he had time.

Securing the file and closing the laptop, he sent another text to Ade - “meet FOX in 5”, then he carefully reversed himself back from the edge of the roof and packed up his laptop, camera, tripod and scope into his back-pack, before checking and erasing any signs of his presence on the roof. He then moved towards the back of the building and down into the street on the far side. The back of the OP (Observation Post) was their designated point “Foxtrot” and only a minute after he was down, Ade came around the corner, carrying a small stack of planks on his shoulder – still continuing the boat fixing pretense.

Quickly Fin brought him up to speed with what he had seen, the position of the messenger at the airport, and then handed him the camera to page through the shots he'd taken. Ade nodded and grunted as he saw the photos of the crates on the open decked Ute, satisfied that the tracker he'd selected would be suitable for the boxes. After studying the photo's carefully he agreed with Fin's assessment that bugging the vehicle would not be as effective as bugging the people or their cargo, as they would be likely to switch vehicles at some point, but their gear they would need to take with them. Bugging the pirates themselves was too risky and the crates offered the best opportunity. They decided the device would best be placed into the edge of the lid of one of the crates near one of the hinges as the least likely place to be spotted. They sketched out a plan whereby Fin, driving the land rover, would momentarily block the path of the pirates giving Ade the couple of seconds he needed to plant the tracker. It was a simple plan, but in their world, the simpler the plan, the more likely it was to work – complex plans had too many opportunities for things to go wrong.

With the plan decided, Ade went back to his boat repairs and Fin went back up to the roof of their OP. Taking a small tube out of a pocket of the backpack, he carefully edged forward and secured the device into the structure of the air-conditioning unit such that it pointed down towards the pirate courtyard but was hidden from anything other than a serious search. Scooting back to his bag, he pulled out the laptop and plugged in a USB stick device which connected him to the camera he'd just placed checking the camera was sending, and the field of view was workable. He took another few minutes to edge forward again to make a small adjustment, then satisfied, returned the laptop to his bag and descended to the ground again.

Time to prepare for his first direct contact with the enemy.
