There he was again; motionless, like he was chiselled out of the stone that towered over the centre of the maze. He looked around 70 and despite the heatwave, wore the same raincoat buttoned tightly up to his chin. He stood in exactly the same spot, just as he had done every Sunday for the past month. Each week the feeling that I knew him from somewhere had grown, but I couldn’t remember where. He’d never spoken to me. In fact, he didn’t even seem to notice me. It was like he was locked in his own little world and I was invisible. Today I was in no rush to get back home, so I approached him.

I coughed. "Excuse me, but do I know you?"

Blank eyes looked at me. "Leave me alone," he said in a dull voice.

My face burned with embarrassment and anger. I turned to weave my way back along the winding green-walled path, but some instinct stopped me. Or was it because his voice sounded inexplicably familiar?

"Is there anything I can do?" I asked for want of anything more imaginative to say.

He was hunched in the shadow of the stone mound.

"Why do you want to know?" He sounded disinterested as if he didn’t care if I answered or not.

I didn’t know what to say. I groped for words. "I sense… I sense you need help."

He looked at me for the first time. His eyes sharpened beneath erratic eyebrows.

"You’re right, I do need to tell someone," he said softly. "But I warn you, you’ll probably think I’m mad." His attempt at a smile failed. "I’ve lost my soul," he said simply.

I looked at him bewildered.

"That’s why I come here, hoping to find it again."

I don’t know what I expected… not this… it was too weird. I shook my head and turned away.

"Don’t go," he cried, clutching my wrist with icy fingers. "I didn’t mean to frighten you. I told you, didn’t I? I said you’d think I was mad."

"I don’t think you’re mad," I lied, avoiding his gaze. My eyes fixed on his scuffed black brogues with the laces undone. "But I don’t know how I can help you."

He released my wrist. "Just listen," he pleaded, "that’s all I ask."

I nodded without replying. I wanted to run but he sounded so wretched, a voice in my head told me to hear him out.

"It happened so long ago. More than 50 years. You wouldn’t think to look at this place now," he gestured with a bony hand to the neglected hedges, overgrown and sagging, and the graffiti that daubed the maze’s granite boulder centrepiece, "but it used to be lovely. For years it’s been abandoned. I used to come here every Sunday afternoon with my wife Mary. She used to make us a picnic and we would lay a cloth on the grass outside." His sad face brightened at the memory. "It’s a mess now, but it used to have beautiful flower beds."

I looked around trying to visualise this forsaken place echoing with the laughter of picnicking families.

"My world stopped one particular Sunday." The lines that streaked his face ran deep, like the fissures etched in the stone. "We’d finished our picnic and went for a walk through the maze. We knew it so well, we could have found our way in and out blindfolded. Mary wanted to climb the boulder and see what the view was like from up there. I told her it was too high, too dangerous. I was tidying away the picnic things when I heard a scream. When I looked up Mary was hanging from the rock by her fingertips. She’d climbed up while I wasn’t looking." His lip trembled. "I scrambled up as fast as I could."

I’m frightened of heights and as I looked at the bleak stone, I felt the hairs rise on the back of my neck.

His grey haunted eyes remained locked on the stone as he continued. "I can still see the relief in her eyes when she saw me. I leaned over as far as I could. My arm was stretching out of its socket. My hand only inches away. I reached even further. I shouted to her to grab my hand. She tried. Oh God… " He sobbed and dashed a bloodless hand through his lank grey hair. "She made no sound but I could see tears running down her lovely face." His voice sank to a whisper and I strained to catch his words. "Then her face twisted with terror as her hands slipped and fell. I lost my balance and toppled over the side after her."

My breath caught in my throat.

"Have you heard of people who’ve had near death experiences?" He was calmer now.

"Yes, I’ve read about it," I replied, giving him an uneasy look.

"Mary died in the fall. I lay beside her. I knew I was seriously injured, but I didn’t care. I was angry with Mary for climbing the mound, angry with myself because I couldn’t save her and angry with God for allowing it to happen." He paused and took a long deep breath, then said: "That’s when I died."

I stared at him aghast.

"I’m not mad," he said quickly. "It’s true. Please let me finish," he implored.

I wanted to tear myself away but couldn’t. And reluctantly nodded.

"All my pain disappeared." His eyes, huge in his chalky face, burned into mine. "There was a bright light in the distance. It drew nearer and nearer, until it bathed me in a luminescent glow."

Icy fingers of sweat crept over my body as I listened.

"I had a wonderful feeling of peace," he went on, his eyes shining with an intense light. "I could see my broken body below as I floated in a bubble of shimmering light."

His voice got higher and he spoke faster. I was frightened but unable to pull my eyes from his hypnotic gaze.

"I was being pulled along a tunnel to the source of the light," he said, breathlessly. "It was glorious. Two Beings of Light were waiting to greet me, and Mary was standing between them. I’d almost reached the source, when a voice said I must go back. It wasn’t my time." He reached out and grabbed my sleeve. "I didn’t want to. I had no choice. I was sent."

My heart ached for this stranger.

"When I woke in hospital, I was angry, angrier than I’ve ever been." His face was grim. "I didn’t want to be here. I felt I didn’t belong. I wanted to be with Mary."

I took a deep breath. "I’ve read that when people are given a second chance, life becomes precious," I said, trying to reassure him and give him a crumb of comfort. "Mary wouldn’t want you to be unhappy. She’d want___"

His eyes blazed. "Life’s empty without Mary. I don’t belong."

I didn’t know what to say to ease his pain. "I don’t understand," I said, feebly.

"That Sunday, I didn’t die but my soul never returned. It somehow became trapped in this maze." His bone-white hands, criss-crossed with blue veins, trembled. "I don’t know how. All I know is I’m alive, but this body… " he pointed down at himself, "is just a shell. Every Sunday afternoon I come here, hoping… " his voice cracked. "I’m in limbo," he said, "detached… floundering between two worlds… belonging to neither."

"I want to help you, but I don’t know how?"

"When I recognised you, I knew you would."

"What… " my voice trembled, "what do you mean?"

"Remember the Beings of Light at the end of the tunnel."

I nodded.

"You were with them."

"I… I don’t understand."

"You’re Mary."

I put my hand to my mouth and looked at him in horrified disbelief. Then turned and ran.

"Please, come back." His cry echoed after me as I fled the maze.

All week at work I couldn’t forget him. I read every thing I could on near death experiences and reincarnation, but couldn’t find the answers to the questions that twirled in my head like washing in a dryer. Could I have been Mary? Is that why he was so familiar to me? Is that why I’m frightened of heights, because I fell from one in another life? I told myself I was being ridiculous. I’d found the maze by accident. It was neglected and not very interesting. I had far better things to do with my Sundays but for some reason I couldn’t fathom, I kept going back week after week. Now I was wondering if it hadn’t been an accident after all. What if destiny had drawn me there. But I was determined not to go back again.

Then when Sunday afternoon came around, I couldn’t settle. All I could think of was the old man in the maze, longing to be with his Mary. The following week was the same. I couldn’t eat, couldn’t sleep. I was a mess, a wreck. My behaviour was the last straw for Joe. For months he’d been asking me to marry him. I was happy just living together. I was so fixated on the old man that I hardly noticed he’d left.

My obsession took over everything. I thought about the old man every second. I knew I had to help him. I found out all I could about the maze and made a startling discovery. The stone came from a quarry where there’d been a murder, almost a century ago.

The following Sunday I returned to the maze. The old man was there as I knew he would be. He looked different, not so neglected. His clothes were still much the worse for wear but his untidy hair had been cut and was neatly combed. His laces were still undone but his shoes had been buffed to a high shine. I told him what I’d found.

"What if your soul is trapped by the tormented spirit of the man who was murdered?"

"I don’t know what you mean?" he whispered in confusion.

"I’m not an expert. But just say, when the stone was brought here from the quarry, the victim’s ghost… spirit… whatever you want to call it, came with it." He still looked puzzled. I pressed on. "It might be lonely and so trapped your soul for company."

His raincoat was too big for his shrunken frame and hung on him like a canvas tent. There was a crust of blood on his chin where he’d nicked himself shaving. The razor-raw pain was still in his eyes, eating my insides. Night after night over the past two weeks I’d reconstructed the events of that tragic Sunday. I’d seen Mary’s tears and terror-twisted face. I prayed my wild plan would work.

"I’ve an idea," I told him. "If we take some of the stone back to the quarry, the ghost may go back with it."

"What good would that do? I still won’t have my Mary," he persisted.

His cheerless face was so pinched, red-hot tears stung my eyes.

"I know, " I said sadly "But it may let you be reunited with your soul. It has to be better than living like this… in limbo."

There was such torment in his eyes. I put my arms around his fleshless shoulders and hugged him. The smell of Brylcream tickled my nostrils.

"I don’t understand any of this," I said in a low voice, "but I know I was meant to help you. Let’s try." My eyes implored him. "Please."

Reluctantly he agreed. We came back that night with the pickaxe, I’d borrowed. He was too weak, so I had to do it. It was tough but determination gave me strength. We took a large chunk of stone to the quarry. I’m not religious, but as we stood in that desolate place I said a little prayer. I hoped it would help both these suffering spirits.

"What now?" he asked when we got back in the maze.

"Lie down exactly where you were after you fell."

He didn’t move.

"It can’t do any harm. Please," I urged.

His eyes softened as he looked at me. "First I want you to have this for trying to help me." He handed me a gold locket. "I gave it to Mary on our wedding day. She’d want you to have it. We’d planned to have children and I know she would have loved a daughter like you." He patted my face and I caught his fragile hand in mine, squeezing it gently. "Whatever happens my dear it’s been a pleasure meeting you," he added.

I couldn’t answer for the tears choking me. I watched him lie down. He closed his eyes and lay still. Nothing happened, then as I watched, his face became illuminated and transformed, wiping away all traces of pain and despair. He looked 50 years younger. He raised his arms as if in welcome, gave a gasp and was still. I hurried over and felt for a pulse. There wasn’t one. There was a look of utter peace on his face. He was reunited with his soul and his beloved Mary. Tears of sorrow and joy rolled down my face. I felt I’d lost part of myself but I was grateful for the short time I’d had with him. It had changed my life. I now knew why I was frightened to commit to Joe. I loved him too much. I had some unexplainable fear that I’d lose him. Now I was ready to say "yes", if he’d have me.

I brushed the old man’s thin face with my lips, fastened his shoelaces, then opened the heart-shaped locket. Inside were two black and white pictures. One was the old man as the young handsome newlywed I’d imagined him to be. The other was a picture of the woman who had haunted my dreams - my grandmother’s twin sister.

I'd never known her. She had died tragically young and I never knew the circumstances. But for some unknown reason from being very little I had always felt drawn to her. Maybe because I was named after her and older members of the family said I reminded them of her.

Slowly I walked home and reported finding the body to the police.
