We moved house on Christmas Eve 1983 from suburban Melbourne to a small town in the Wimmera. The story starts two days later, or more precise still, on Boxing Day in the middle of the night.

“Dad. Dad,” my daughter whispered, shaking me by the shoulder.

“What?”

“There’s a man outside my window. He talks funny.”

My bedside clock showed 2.15. We had been asleep a couple of hours after unpacking all day.

“I can hear him shouting from here,” I said.

“What’s he doing? Come on dad!” my curious daughter urged.

We felt our way along the hallway in the dark, tripping over half unpacked suitcases.

“Turn the light on,” my daughter urged.

“No!”

We sneaked into the front room and listened to this shadowy figure that had moved on a little and now stood on the footpath right at our front door talking loudly. Then he shouted loud commands, turned and stood still.

“He’s talking to the power pole,” my daughter said.

“What are you two doing? Do you know what time it is?” my wife wanted to know.

The dog, woken by the goings on, voiced his concern in a soft growl.

“Shush, Banjo.”

“Now he is talking to the wall,” I said, for the man had turned around and looked at us.

“Can he see us?”

“No.”

Banjo went back to his basket while we three stood there in our pajamas.

“Who is he?”

“No idea,” I replied.

“Come on sweetie,” my wife said. “Dad will keep watch, won’t you?”

“Yes, Good night.”

There were no streetlights, only dim light from the telephone booth across the road. Two fluorescent tubes, one on and one flickering under the Four Square Country Mart awning backlit the figure of a tall, stooped man. He wore what looked like an army great coat. He walked across the road and stood still at the supermarket door. He saluted the sandwich board leaning against the glass shop front. He seemd to be having a conversation. Trouble was, I could only see one person, but heard two voices. One spoke with authority, loudly, distinctly and fluently. The other spoke softly and more slowly, indistinctly and diffidently.

Then, at the top of his lungs, he commanded a turn, did so and marched on the spot:

“LEFT RIGHT LEFT RIGHT LE-HEFT….”

“HALT!”The coat sleeves were much too short for his skinny arms, now at his side.

“AT EASE!”

Then he gave someone a real dressing down.

Banjo started barking as did the bitser next door and farm dogs up in the hills. A window in the flat above the shop opened.

“Go home John,” a voice called out. ” For God’s sake.”

John stumbled across the road, looking neither right nor left and walked past our house. He stopped at our door again and started talking just as the clouds parted and moonlight broke through. His lips moved but he didn’t speak. His head nodded up and down and from side to side. He had something to say but the severe stammer, mumblings and incoherent mutterings told me nothing that made sense.

“LEFT RIGHT LEFT RIGHT LE-HEFT….” he shouted and marched. His voice faded but not before he had set off more dogs barking. I went back to bed. He must have retired too for everything went quiet.

It was the day after Boxing Day and the shop was open. I knew straight away that this was John. There was the army coat draped over a chair next to him. He was sitting at a kitchen table just inside the shop drinking coffee, a regular thing as I learnt. I introduced myself to the woman behind the counter. She had Rhonda embroidered on her apron.

She came from behind the counter and asked John:

“Do you want to do your shopping today?”

He thought very hard and took forever to make up his mind.

”Ye..ye..ye.. yes.”

“Show me the list, please.”

Rhonda, obviously used to his fumbling and muttering waited patiently.

“Is it in the sweatband?”

John smiled and reached for the hat beside him on the tiled floor.

“F…fff…fff… found it.” He looked very pleased and started talking to himself.

“Did Big John keep you awake last night?” Rhonda asked as I paid for my milk.

“For a little while,” I admitted. “Does he do this a lot, this late night raving?”

“Not as often now. Two, three times a week. He is not drunk, only a bit unhinged. Just tell him to go home. I do.”

Unhinged. Rhonda’s polite assessment got me wondering.

Big John still sat there, having an argument with someone inside him. He seemed to be well known and tolerated for many coming into the shop greeted him, but no-one made an effort to speak to him, other than ‘Hello, how are you?’ to which his reply was invariably:

“G….g….g…g… good, thanks.”

Over coming months, I realized that if you engaged him in conversation, you had to get used to him looking past you with eyes staring at something over your right shoulder. He was Big John but not really big any more-just tall. Why Big John? I never found out. He was well over six foot tall even allowing for the pronounced stoop. Age? Seventies, maybe 80? He was bone, skin and sinew. His arms were thin sticks, his hands huge with bony knuckles, dark with darker age spots, some grayish and flaking. He wore hob nail boots without laces.

He picked up his battered squatter hat. It was brown, green, grey perhaps-definitely a sunbleached hat colour. A small crown with a triangular tear, a brim not too wide. There was a greasy stain in the front where fingers over the years had picked it up and adjusted the angle. A hat some might put on a scarecrow or keep on a nail in the shed for no reason at all. He stood up, swayed a little and lurched towards the exit. His navy twill pants were a hand width too short and his bony ankles showed. He didn't bother with socks. He stood in the door way and started talking to the doorframe.

“See you John,” Rhonda called out, “Be home by three for your groceries.”

That interrupted his monologue and he shuffled off, head well forward, terribly unsteady. His boots made his shuffling gait, a staggering wobbly walk, a noisy affair. You could hear him scraping on the paved footpath from quite a distance-especially at night.

His house was seven houses down from ours. The front garden needed weeding and the wire gate was half open and jammed permanently because of the broken top hinge. The verandah looked decidedly rickety, with gaps in the decking. The weatherboards looked patchy where some helper had failed to match the original colour. It might have been the geraniums or the magnificent magnolia tree in flower that gave this otherwise neglected and worn place a happy and welcoming look. John got by with a little bit of help. A district nurse came by three times a week. Meals on wheels delivered.

John lived there on his now. His parents had lived there and he settled down with his widowed mother two years after the war ended, over as far as he was concerned already in 1943. He did not know what happened to him from the artillery battle in 1943 until 1947 when he came home. So John told Mick and Mick told me.

John liked Mick and trusted him with money. Come pension day, Mick, who was the Postmaster and Commonwealth Bank agent, put a set amount into John’s special savings account. When there was enough in the kitty, John and Mick would go and see a travel agent. When he really wanted to, John was quite capable and decidedly independent.

He stood in the main street, walking on the spot and looked this way and that. He wore a suit and tie and had a new walking stick. There was a worn leather suitcase close by his side.

“You going somewhere John?”

“Ja….Ja…. Ja… Ja Japan.”

“Japan. Wow!“

He had the wickedest look about him and his eyes sparkled.

“You’re up to no good,” I declared.

His face broke into an even broader smile and I swear, he blushed and sniggered!

“Gonna see me girlfriend,” he said. “In Os…Os…Os … Osaka.”

“You dirty dog,“ I said and that made him laugh.

”Gonna have a ma… ma… .ma… ma… . massage!”

“Ashiatsu?” I guessed and he nodded.

“She walks all over your back?”

“Yes. I like that.”

Mick drove him to the airport. I wondered what the Japanese would make of this giant, thin geriatric with the warmest grin, wide mouth and big square teeth.

Mick came by our house later and we talked about John. Had he done the right thing letting him go to Japan on his own? He had been there before. John’s next trip would be a four week Mediterranean cruise. The doctor insisted: John needed a companion and Mick obliged. Why the Mediterranean?

Mick told me: John had served in North Africa as a gunner in World War II. His artillery crew had taken a direct hit from the enemy position after four days of exchange fire. Only John survived, slightly wounded in body. The barrage and deaths had sent him over the edge. The doctors diagnosed battle fatigue and declared him medically unfit. After three years in mental hospitals, the doctors could do no more for this traumatized man. In their opinion, John would dwell most of the time in his inner world. Not a dangerous schizophrenic but a man who able to function adequately in the outer world. He would suffer flashbacks for as long as he lived. He would be unpredictable but not a danger to himself or others. Unhinged. Mick explained that the Big John we knew, was the same man who, discharged from hospital, had come to live with his widowed mother. John had made good his promise to her, to come home. Perhaps that promise had brought him out of a catatonic state?

Yes, he was home in body. His troubled mind was elsewhere. The villagers understood and made allowances.

I don’t know whether we got used to John’s midnight excursions or whether he stayed home nights. Dog sometimes let out a soft “woof”.

“Good boy Banjo. It’s only John. Go back to sleep.”

To which he replied “humph” as if to say, ‘fine with me’. He was that sort of dog.

The tourist pair came back early by air from Rome. John had fallen ill half way through the cruise. I used to see him at the Post Office quite regularly, but not lately. I asked Mick what John was up to. He had fallen at home. The broken hip mended ever so slowly.

A hunched figure hobbled up the road, bent over a Zimmer frame, arms at an uncomfortable and awkward angle. It was Big John-or what was left of him. It was agony watching him lift the appliance, move it forward a fraction and catch up with faltering steps. He talked to the ground, angry. He had enough sense not to cross the road alone. I helped him until he was safely in the supermarket car park.

“How are you John?” Rhonda asked.

“A bit s…s….s…..slow.”

She held the heavy shop door open for him and got a big smile. He managed the single step up-but only just. His face was gaunt and grey. There was caked, white spittle in the corner of his mouth. He had not shaved for quite a while. Nobody had cleaned his ears of long hairs. His fingernails were too long. He started mumbling to himself as soon as he sat down. His two voices started arguing, about what was impossible to say and kept interrupting each other. Some out-of-towners looked away, embarrassed and uncertain of what was going on. The locals just shrugged their shoulders; we knew. Rhonda brought him his coffee and that interrupted the ravings. He returned to our real world but briefly. By the time he was out the door, he had sunk back into a world of stress, conflict, turmoil oblivious of his surroundings.

I don’t know what happened to Big John after Anzac Day 1997. He was there without the Zimmer frame and stood at attention as close as he could to the Cenotaph, just a stone’s throw from our house. Someone had spruced him up-he looked proud and capable. He stood tall, quite straight, medals and all. He touched the cold marble and traced the name of fallen comrades. His eyes watered. His lips moved but no words came out.

But then:

“ATTEN SHUN.”

“LEFT RIGHT LEFT RIGHT LE-HEFT….” His voice boomed stronger than ever.

His commands and the bugle call started Banjo barking in the backyard.

I didn’t see Big John after that. What is it they say about old soldiers?